# 2026-07-22-uniaccess-cept-university — 56 turns, 1 positional, 1 blocks
=== BLOCK 1 | label spk:2 | turns 2026-07-22-uniaccess-cept-university-t006..2026-07-22-uniaccess-cept-university-t006 (idx 5-5) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-22-uniaccess-cept-university-t004] [Nilesh] Yes. Okay. So, yes. This is the CEPT campus. We are a very small campus out there in Ahmedabad. Like it's so we established in 1962 by B. V. Doshi, who is an architect. We started with the School of Architecture and then subsequently every decade we have added School of Planning, School of Technology, and we also run MBA program. We are following the cross-disciplinary learning since now a four decades. So, our pedagogy is studio-driven and cross-disciplinary. This is CEPT in numbers. We are GSIRF 6. We are the only private university there since 2020. We have a small cohort of 2,100 students. Most of our 70% of our faculties are practitioner. So, they practice apart from teaching at the CEPT. We also have a five-star status in GSIRF Gujarat rating and we are also Center of Excellence. We offer generous means-based and merit-based scholarships. More than 25% of the students every year gets means-based scholarship at CEPT. We also have a lot of travel programs that are talked about in later. So, like we have a lot many IPRs and travel courses that we run. So, what we are known as I told you for studio-based pedagogy. Now, what is the studio-based pedagogy? That forms 70% of the core academic of the CEPT. So, 70% of your credit is a single studio. And a typical studio is a group of 10 to 12 students working in a on a given real-life problem. And the studios are span across L1, L2, L3, L4. Say, L1 is a foundation studio. L2 is a vertical studio where a second and third-year students can be together and they are horizontally also. So, vertical and horizontal, horizontal to the discipline. So, student in architecture can take a studio in civil engineering if they allow. Right? If If many of the studios are offered as a cross-disciplinary where in a faculty offers multiple cohorts. Then L3 is the level four and five, year four and five students, and L4 is a Master students. Some of the Master students can also take an L3 studio and fifth-year students can also take a L4 studio. So, that's how it is vertically and horizontally aligned. Our all programs are five-year. Our all UG programs are five-year, be it a design program or civil engineering program or an urban design and architecture program. Why? Because we run a common foundation program for all of these students. There, like, we prepare students from elementary education to exploratory education. They will have to learn as to how I'll make the choices. They will have to learn as to how I'll work in studios. They will have to learn the designs around it. Right? So, that's where we prepare them in the first year of their education. And this is a single cohort. It has a separate dean and separate institutional framework that we are running since last three decades now. Our syllabus is only 30% fixed, rest of rest of the syllabus is completely choice-based. A student can decide studios. Every year they make choices as to I want to do this studio. If not available, then this is the second studio that I want to do. And the faculty will offer the multiple different kind of the studios. Those are the faculties who are either working at CEPT, CEPT faculty, and some studios are with the industry, some are the with the cross-disciplinary two faculties from the two different department of a studio. So, there are around 100 studios every semester that a student choose from. Then, the second very important choice with the students is the summer and winter school. We offer around 100 specialized summer and winter schools during the summer and winter break and those are travel-based national, travel-based international, and on-campus programs. So, so students have a multiple choice. They can either do it as a credit course or an additional credit course the way they like. And these are the courses where the faculties from outside CEPT, a practitioner from outside CEPT can offer a summer/winter school. So, if you want to offer, you can also offer a school, if gets selected, that's a part of the cohort. And then, students outside the CEPT can also apply for the summer/winter schools. One of the very exciting aspect of CEPT is the exhibitions. Our winter exhibition is the largest, which is typically so best time to visit CEPT is December when the winter exhibition happens. Like, all the work of a studio are on the display. So, you will see entire campus with those final work of the studios displayed there. Summer exhibitions are also there, which happens in the May second week. We have two, two juries during the semester, mid-sem and end-sem. And juries are a board of reviewers. They are among from the industry, alum, practitioner, they all form as a board of reviews and they that keep changing. So, they will not review only the student's work, but the studio work. So, automatically, the faculty review also happens at the same time. Like, every year, the 10 studios are selected as a excellence, bean excellence awards, and there is a separate curated exhibition and catalog released for those excellence exhibitions. We have around 40 active international collaboration. Most of our collaborations are two-way. They are for the student exchange program, collaborative studios are there like they go for summer/winter schools, they are collaborative. They come here, we go there. And then, there are joint research between faculty, students, or a group of faculty and students. We run about 17 PG programs. They are also cross-disciplinary program. So, a civil engineering can apply to all our planning program. Somebody who has graduated in design, they can do architecture program in conservation and regeneration. So, lot of people don't know, but we also run MBA in real estate, MBA in urban management. The way IRMA runs our rural management program, we are the only institute in India who runs an urban management program. In bachelors, we have around 126 in B.Arch, 40 in bachelor of urban design. When it comes to architecture, we accept NATA score. For urban design, we accept NATA or JEE Paper 2 score. Lot of people confused about how the merits are calculated. So, B.Arch and B.U.D. merit has a 50-50 weightage of NATA and board score. So, if a student has scored 90% in board, 120 in NATA because NATA is out of 200, so student merit score will be 75. So, this is the score which is a good score to get into the CEPT. The student can stay positive if his score, merit score of 75, and this is how calculated by 50%. So, this is the only entrance exam which also takes board into account. And we run bachelors in design program. We have communications design, product design, and multidisciplinary design. So, student can decide to remain in multidisciplinary rather than selecting his major. There, the admissions are only through UCEED. We also run a civil engineering program since 1982, so it's one of the oldest civil engineering program at in India. And we have only a small cohort of 40 students there. And there also, we follow the similar studio-based pedagogy. And yes, we are open for counselors. You can schedule a visit at CEPT, a group or an individual visit. We also arrange a lot of workshops in your cities or at the CEPT campus. And if you want to organize a specific workshop, like we have done this with one of our community members in past, we can do that. We have a program ambassadors, so if you are, counseling students and who want more information about CEPT, they can get in touch with the program ambassadors. Link to their names are already there on the website. We organize a lot of public events and webinars. There are open houses, which I usually share on the group. And yes, we maintain this relationship. So, yes, this this is what all about CEPT. Now, if you have any question.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-22-uniaccess-cept-university-t005] [Pooja] That was super, super quick and efficient, Nilesh. Thank you so much. And I think it's, it's a great idea to open the floor, because a lot of folks probably have questions. So, yeah. Guys, just feel free to unmute yourself and ask your question and Nilesh will answer. Go ahead, if you have. Anybody have any questions for Nilesh? Or was he super clear?
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-22-uniaccess-cept-university-t006] [spk:2] Yeah, I think it was quite self-explanatory. I mean, the visuals were also understandable, so thank you, Nilesh, for that.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-22-uniaccess-cept-university-t007] [Nilesh] Yeah, I will touch upon one aspect where a lot of time I get questions is the kind of the studios that we do. Right? So, what I'll do, I'll just show you one or two studio. And this is the website that is also a good resource for. Let me stop sharing. I'll have to first allow my sharing, and then share, probably. Yes. Now, I'll be able to share it again.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-22-uniaccess-cept-university-t008] [Pooja] Nilesh, while you do that, there is a question on chat. Okay. And Kamalika is asking, what kind of UCEED scores for B.Des program are required?
