# 2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech — 8 turns, 8 positional, 3 blocks
=== BLOCK 1 | label spk:0 | turns 2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t001..2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t005 (idx 0-4) | 5 turn(s)
  (BLOCK) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t001] [spk:0] Like to ask any questions while I'm presenting, please be open to, you know, unmute and ask any question, or you can also put them in the chat box.
  (BLOCK) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t002] [spk:0] So Atlas SkillTech University is based in Kurla West in Mumbai, very much in the central heart of Mumbai is what we have. We are offering multiple areas in terms of courses for students. So, one of our most prominent courses or schools is the Design School, Design and Innovation. Then, there is Management and Entrepreneurship. Then, we also have Technology, which we call as the UGDX School, and then there's Law. These are four areas that are offered at Atlas SkillTech University. As I mentioned earlier, we are located very much in the heart of Mumbai, so as you can see, it's pretty much pretty central, as such, we are not in the outskirts of Mumbai, so students get to experience the life that is as in Mumbai. And because we are very much located in the heart of the city itself and in Bandra as a location, BKC, which is a very popular business hub as well, brings students a wealth of opportunities in terms of also finding internships and future placements for job opportunities. Specifically, when it comes to the location, we have we have two buildings that are available, and we give the experience of like being an NYU in Manhattan or a campus which is located centrally in London, that kind of an environment is what we have at Atlas SkillTech. And we are trying obviously here at Atlas to bring in more US education standards of learnings as you will see that majority of our courses are in affiliation with some US school. For ISDI, particularly, which is in collaboration with Parsons School, ISDI and ISME are very long standing individual diploma granting institutions since 2013 and 2015. They were diploma granting earlier, and then when NEP came into effect, obviously, then they were formed into a university, which is Atlas SkillTech, and then the other majors were added. So, ISDI and Parsons are a long-standing collaboration, and the collaboration is to to the extent that Parsons obviously influences the curriculum development, the faculty trainings for our faculty members, as well. So, our students get very first-hand advantage of, although being in India, but learning in the Parsons style of curriculum. For Management and Entrepreneurship School, we have we are a group of Babson group of schools, which are about 30 schools across the globe. There also there is definitely a lot of conversation and dialogue about what is beneficial for a student, and that's why our majority of our courses come with the influence of a learning pattern which is more US centric, rather than the rote learning which is which was seen earlier in India. Other than that, our UGDX school is one is very prominent. It's three years old at this time. However, we have had some fantastic establishments and achievements through our experienced faculty members and our students obviously. So, students have achieved and won several accolades at NASA, at Google. We also have students who have participated in several other competitions and have won challenges in the Indian ecosystem as well. So, our students are developing, developing a car structure or a drone structured car, basically, for the Indian Army also. I posted about that a couple of days back on our LinkedIn. So, our LinkedIn and Instagram are places where you can definitely follow us to see all the recent updates of our students' placements, of everything that's happening on our campus first-hand. And then, there's School of Law, which is a Bar Council approved law school program. This is very new, it was it just started last year, and we are entering the second year at this time. So, these are the courses in our individual schools, if I may quickly take you through. So, our fashion communication and styling is the most popular course. Our product design is the most popular course, and our fashion design and strategic design and management are some of the popular courses in the School of Design. In Management, obviously, our BBAs come with specializations, which are very popular. We also have a BBA in Psychology. We also have an International Accounting and Finance, which gives the benefit to a student of waiving nine papers of 12 papers. And then, we also have AI and emerging technologies BBA for a student at ISME. So, all futuristic programs, no program that you will see is something that is that is sorts of, you know, a rote that leads to any kind of rote learning, but very futuristic and definitely a lot of advanced learning opportunities for students. Then comes the school which is UGDX, which is CS, AI, ML, robotics, digital design. And then, comes Law. Only in BBA, we offer a three-year exit plan for a student if they want to do a three-year traditional style BBA program, or else, they can do an Honors for four years. Other than that, all our programs, except the BBA LLB, which is five years, are four-year programs at Atlas. I'll also take you through a little bit about our placements. So, because of our chancellor's very strong connections in Mumbai, Dr. Indu Shahani, our campus definitely gets the benefit of bringing a lot of top companies on our campus for placements and recruitment. It is mandatory for any Atlas student to also involve themselves in startups if they're a business student, so they have to launch and ideate and launch their own startup ideally by the end of the third year. And if they are a if they are in any other programs, every semester, they have an internship which is mandatory. So, our semesters between July to December gives you gives them a 20-day break, and then from the second semester, after the second semester, which is January to May, they get a longer break. From May onwards till July is when they have to do a long-term internship, and they have to submit documents for that obviously which are mandatory. And we help students find internships, we don't just say go and find an internship. We have a career development cell, and that helps students with finding the right kind of fit of an opportunity for them, be it in the social circles or be in social service or in finance, or any other areas that the students might be interested in. So, that is something that we provide as a benefit, and that same is followed obviously for their placements after they graduate as well. If are there any questions or should I move on?
  (BLOCK) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t003] [spk:0] Okay. So, we have several student clubs on our campus where students are obviously engaged and are very busy. We also have students who intern on campus with us, so that is also something that is possible through the Student Council. Stage is very artsy, performance based. Then there's Finance and Finvest Club, which invites several top companies or speakers who can come and talk to the students about the developments that are happening in finance world, or how can they build a career in finance or in other allied careers. We also have a on-campus accommodation facility that's available for students. So, as I mentioned, we have two buildings just across the street from one another, one is a seven-story building that's older, currently just about five years, and then there's a newer building which is about three years, which is 11 stories. In that, we have design studios, classrooms for design students, and we have hostel facilities also on campus. Hostel is not mandatory, so on-campus accommodation is an option provided to the student, however, it is not mandatory for them to live on campus with us. We also have some summer school, so I'll just take you through briefly of what summer schools we have. We have one in design, then we have one in business, and we have one in technology, which is UGDX, and they are very much still open and accepting applications for the second and the third cohort, whereas where applicable. If you have any students who are still exploring that, we'll be more than happy to have any sorts of communication with them. I'll stop sharing my screen to see if there are any questions, because we wanted to keep this very light in terms of presentations, but have more dialogue. So, are there any questions that you have, Sonal?
  (BLOCK) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t004] [spk:0] Hello, Sonal.
  (BLOCK) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t005] [spk:0] Sonal, do you have any questions?
  (ctx+1) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t006] [spk:1] Uh, but I think Sonal is not having any questions, she's dropped a text. Yeah, messages.
  (ctx+1) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t007] [spk:0] Okay. Perfect. So, thank you so much. Thank you, Sonal, for sticking with us around. If you have any questions in the future, please feel free to reach out to me.
=== BLOCK 2 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t006..2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t006 (idx 5-5) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t004] [spk:0] Hello, Sonal.
  (ctx-1) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t005] [spk:0] Sonal, do you have any questions?
  (BLOCK) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t006] [spk:1] Uh, but I think Sonal is not having any questions, she's dropped a text. Yeah, messages.
  (ctx+1) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t007] [spk:0] Okay. Perfect. So, thank you so much. Thank you, Sonal, for sticking with us around. If you have any questions in the future, please feel free to reach out to me.
  (ctx+1) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t008] [spk:0] Thank you. Bye-bye.
=== BLOCK 3 | label spk:0 | turns 2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t007..2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t008 (idx 6-7) | 2 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t005] [spk:0] Sonal, do you have any questions?
  (ctx-1) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t006] [spk:1] Uh, but I think Sonal is not having any questions, she's dropped a text. Yeah, messages.
  (BLOCK) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t007] [spk:0] Okay. Perfect. So, thank you so much. Thank you, Sonal, for sticking with us around. If you have any questions in the future, please feel free to reach out to me.
  (BLOCK) [2026-05-23-uniaccess-atlas-skilltech-t008] [spk:0] Thank you. Bye-bye.
