# 2026-07-30-in-focus-3 — 96 turns, 80 positional, 41 blocks
=== BLOCK 1 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t001..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t001 (idx 0-0) | 1 turn(s)
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t001] [spk:1] What's up, Nimesh? Foreign admits? Ah, but yeah. Okay, so today we have two interesting folks, Anisha from Status Sky and Shithij Garg from Astero. First of all, congratulations for being selected at InFocus. And the model of the presentation InFocus is is an initiative at TOC, which basically gives us stage to showcase some of the interesting founders and their products and their services and their companies, so that our community also knows about us, and then it eventually can lead to better engagements and better business, also, as a by-product. Okay. So, we have Anisha Parekh, who is the founder of Status Sky. Status Sky is a 3 to 4 months entrepreneurship accelerator for students from grade 8 to grade 12, who want to go beyond clubs and competitions to build something meaningful. Students take an idea from concept to launch, working on one-to-one with mentors from IITs, IIMs, Harvard, Stanford, NYU and many more colleges, and graduating with real outcomes, not just another certificate. So, over to you, Anisha.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t002] [Anisha] Thank you so much for the warm introduction. Nikhil, can I just share my screen?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t003] [spk:1] Absolutely. I think Bidya is, yeah.
=== BLOCK 2 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t003..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t003 (idx 2-2) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t001] [spk:1] What's up, Nimesh? Foreign admits? Ah, but yeah. Okay, so today we have two interesting folks, Anisha from Status Sky and Shithij Garg from Astero. First of all, congratulations for being selected at InFocus. And the model of the presentation InFocus is is an initiative at TOC, which basically gives us stage to showcase some of the interesting founders and their products and their services and their companies, so that our community also knows about us, and then it eventually can lead to better engagements and better business, also, as a by-product. Okay. So, we have Anisha Parekh, who is the founder of Status Sky. Status Sky is a 3 to 4 months entrepreneurship accelerator for students from grade 8 to grade 12, who want to go beyond clubs and competitions to build something meaningful. Students take an idea from concept to launch, working on one-to-one with mentors from IITs, IIMs, Harvard, Stanford, NYU and many more colleges, and graduating with real outcomes, not just another certificate. So, over to you, Anisha.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t002] [Anisha] Thank you so much for the warm introduction. Nikhil, can I just share my screen?
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t003] [spk:1] Absolutely. I think Bidya is, yeah.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t004] [spk:2] Yeah, I have given her the co-host access.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t005] [Anisha] Yeah. So, can you see my screen, or is it me, you can see? Yeah, okay, perfect. So, thank you so much, thank you Bhakti, thank you TOC team, I'm very excited to be here, and great opportunity for me to actually tell you guys about what we do at Status Sky. So, I'm happy to be here, and great to see a lot of people here. I think I know a few of you all, but hopefully at the end of the day, I'll know all of you all. So, um, just getting right into it, before we actually get into it, just a few of you all here, want to ask you all, um, when has been the last time that you've had a student come to you and ask you, "How do I really stand out? And how do I actually make myself really be seen with so many applications and so many people applying for colleges?" Any, show of hands, anyone's had that, had any student ask you that? Yeah, I can see quite a few of you all, right? So, um, that's what we actually do at Status Sky. You know, the problem is that there's so many students out there. I mean, you know, right, when you picture this, picture a student who's smart, who's capable, who has the good grades, but with so many students out there, how do they really stand out, right? So, that's what we do at Status Sky. We help students start their own projects or their own businesses. Uh, this is for 13 years plus, so we help them build their own businesses, you know, compete in competitions across the world, internships, as well as creating their own real, genuine story about what they're doing. So, all our curriculum has been reviewed and guided by academic mentors at Harvard and IIT, and um, we really are trying to help students build something that they are passionate about and something that they can keep going for a period of time. So, it doesn't just stop at starting something, we help and we focus on execution. So, I'm just moving on. So, the way our program works is, um, we have different phases. So, the phases are, you know, divided into different parts, and we'll go deeper into each of them, but the first phase is primarily going from idea to launch. So, in this idea to launch, you know, we have a lot of students who come to us who don't have ideas, which is totally fine. I would say 85% don't have an idea, and that's totally okay. So, what we do is, we actually try to get to know the student a little better, see what their interests are, what type of person they are, of course, very important, how much time do they have, right? Because these students are so busy they don't have time. So, keeping all of that in mind, also in terms of what kind of, um, you know, project do they want to do. So, all of that keeping that in mind, we actually take them, help them go forward. Then, we have mentors who actually help them execute, we build them up in terms of the competitions, and then we have our internship. So, let me go a little deeper into each of them. Um, and before we do that, actually, we have two program tracks. So, one is an individual track, which is you can start honestly anytime you want. So, it's very personalized, it's one-on-one, which happens online. You could have multiple mentors, um, basically from idea to launch to execution to the competitions, all of that is done individually. The group track is a little different. The group part of it works in the first phase, where we go from idea to launching something. So, this is, this can be done either online, uh, we've had offline sessions in Mumbai, as of now, just in Mumbai, and the first part of it, which is the idea to launch, happens in a group of about 6 to 10 kids. We have fixed dates for this. So, it can be done in summer, winter, Diwali, on weekends when we have it, and so that happens, um, for around 5 days of 20 hours, and post that, we would have one-on-one sessions with the student to take it forward as well as, you know, uh, applying to competitions and the internship. So, that's just a little bit of a difference in the group and the individual. So, going back to the phase one, which is from idea to launch, what we do is we really want students to come up with a problem that requires a solution. You know, sometimes you feel like, uh, "Oh, I have this really cool idea and I want to work on this." But if nobody is going to buy what you have, what you're selling, or, you know, use what you're actually producing, there's no point, right? So, we try and find the right problem for them to be able to build a solution. So, a lot of customer discovery, talking to people, doing a little bit of competitive research, going deeper and seeing what is there in the market, and once we actually finalize the problem, you know, get the right solution that they should build, then we actually freeze on a name, go deeper, create like a website or a landing page, create a deck, and then take it forward from there. So, this is the first phase, and then we go ahead in terms of mentorship, where we tie them up to mentors in that specific field. So, if a student launches something in design, or in STEM, or in tech, or even something related to health, we have mentors from different fields, from reputed colleges, or founders themselves who have that experience, to be able to take them forward. So, they will give them one-on-one sessions to help them actually execute and go further. We then also help them with competitions, and then we have the option of an internship as well. So, these are some of the founders that we actually, some of the mentors that we work with, from, you know, from mentors who went to Harvard, to, you know, people who've, on the sports field, to Google for Startups. We have 25 to 30 mentors in different fields, and we're just adding to that. So, we try and keep that very personalized in terms of, it's a very structured mentorship program, where we have different students, uh, different mentors, you know, for each student. And we try and keep it very personalized, so that they know this is, you know, this is what the student has done and how to help them take it forward. So, each student will have like a goal in place and, "This is what I want to do at the end of it." And that's what we try and help them achieve. Of course, not everyone's goals are reached. If they have really, uh, you know, unachievable goals, we try to keep them very realistic, given the time and the, um, bandwidth that these students have, right? Um, so also in terms of competitions, we help them in different competitions, like Diamond Challenge, Blue Ocean. Depending on what their idea or their project is, we we support them in two competitions over the, you know, months that we have, and in case the competitions are happening later, post the 3, 4 months, that also we will help them. So, that's not a problem. So, these are some of the startups we work with in terms of, um, for them for internships, all types of, um, startups. Again, we would ask students what their interests are, what, you know, they would like to do, and keeping that in mind, we'd help them match them. So, what do students actually walk away with? Um, they'll walk away with a launch product or a service, you know, mentorship from really interesting founders and people from reputed colleges, help them with the competitions, and they genuinely have a true, authentic story to be able to show that, "I am a student who had that drive to be able to start my own thing, and this is what I've done over the last few months, over the last year." And it's a genuine story for essays, for interviews, for whatever else that they have, to be able to talk about. If they do exceptionally well, we also help them with recommendation letters if the mentor is, you know, who feels they want to give a recommendation letter, and of course, we have the internships as well. So, just taking you through what some of our students have created, honestly, these are just a few. Um, they all have done amazing jobs. Some have built small things, some have built larger things, but at the end of the day, they've put their heart and soul, and actually created something amazing. So, let's start with Raghav. Um, Raghav was a student who who felt that, um, teenagers like himself didn't really, don't really read the newspapers, right? They don't have time, and they're so used to these bite-size videos. So, he said, "Why don't I use AI for this, collate data from AI, and then create bite-size videos." So, that's what he's created in a brief today. Atulya was looking at, um, a fresh way to connect with mental health, um, and holistic, uh, healing experts. So, from what is a psychologist, to a psychiatrist, to a counselor, to a, you know, therapist, to Reiki healer, like all kinds of people in the in the health space, is who she's got together. Amayra felt like she wanted to build a sports accessory line using sustainable and, uh, reusable material, so that's what she's done. Rehaan just felt he wanted everyone to be fit, and so he's created something for, um, people to get fitter. Uh, Samay's idea was a pure impact social-driven, um, project where he said, "You and I have so many things we want to give away, but we don't know where to give, and there's so many NGOs who require things on a regular basis. So, why not bridge that gap, and, you know, help NGOs and people like us connect with each other." So, in his first few days, he had Teach For India, who was on-boarded. So, it was quite an amazing, um, achievement for him. Anushka, someone who's super-smart, she wanted to create a Chrome extension for people, like, you know, today online you see so many images, you don't know whether they're real or they're AI-driven. So, she created a Chrome extension where when you right click on it, you'll realize whether that image is AI or not. So, these are just some of the projects that they've done. I mean, lots of different ones, from pet space, to, you know, health, to even like very sport-related. So, these are some of the testimonials we've had, students from reputed college, uh, schools across India, as well as, you know, from the US like, uh, Wilbraham & Monson we have, someone from Singapore, um, you know, from Bombay International, IIT as well, so all kinds of students we've had. Um, really, really great feedback and just keeps us going and gives us that energy to help students even more. So, I'm going to just show you a quick video.
=== BLOCK 3 | label spk:2 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t004..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t004 (idx 3-3) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t002] [Anisha] Thank you so much for the warm introduction. Nikhil, can I just share my screen?
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t003] [spk:1] Absolutely. I think Bidya is, yeah.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t004] [spk:2] Yeah, I have given her the co-host access.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t005] [Anisha] Yeah. So, can you see my screen, or is it me, you can see? Yeah, okay, perfect. So, thank you so much, thank you Bhakti, thank you TOC team, I'm very excited to be here, and great opportunity for me to actually tell you guys about what we do at Status Sky. So, I'm happy to be here, and great to see a lot of people here. I think I know a few of you all, but hopefully at the end of the day, I'll know all of you all. So, um, just getting right into it, before we actually get into it, just a few of you all here, want to ask you all, um, when has been the last time that you've had a student come to you and ask you, "How do I really stand out? And how do I actually make myself really be seen with so many applications and so many people applying for colleges?" Any, show of hands, anyone's had that, had any student ask you that? Yeah, I can see quite a few of you all, right? So, um, that's what we actually do at Status Sky. You know, the problem is that there's so many students out there. I mean, you know, right, when you picture this, picture a student who's smart, who's capable, who has the good grades, but with so many students out there, how do they really stand out, right? So, that's what we do at Status Sky. We help students start their own projects or their own businesses. Uh, this is for 13 years plus, so we help them build their own businesses, you know, compete in competitions across the world, internships, as well as creating their own real, genuine story about what they're doing. So, all our curriculum has been reviewed and guided by academic mentors at Harvard and IIT, and um, we really are trying to help students build something that they are passionate about and something that they can keep going for a period of time. So, it doesn't just stop at starting something, we help and we focus on execution. So, I'm just moving on. So, the way our program works is, um, we have different phases. So, the phases are, you know, divided into different parts, and we'll go deeper into each of them, but the first phase is primarily going from idea to launch. So, in this idea to launch, you know, we have a lot of students who come to us who don't have ideas, which is totally fine. I would say 85% don't have an idea, and that's totally okay. So, what we do is, we actually try to get to know the student a little better, see what their interests are, what type of person they are, of course, very important, how much time do they have, right? Because these students are so busy they don't have time. So, keeping all of that in mind, also in terms of what kind of, um, you know, project do they want to do. So, all of that keeping that in mind, we actually take them, help them go forward. Then, we have mentors who actually help them execute, we build them up in terms of the competitions, and then we have our internship. So, let me go a little deeper into each of them. Um, and before we do that, actually, we have two program tracks. So, one is an individual track, which is you can start honestly anytime you want. So, it's very personalized, it's one-on-one, which happens online. You could have multiple mentors, um, basically from idea to launch to execution to the competitions, all of that is done individually. The group track is a little different. The group part of it works in the first phase, where we go from idea to launching something. So, this is, this can be done either online, uh, we've had offline sessions in Mumbai, as of now, just in Mumbai, and the first part of it, which is the idea to launch, happens in a group of about 6 to 10 kids. We have fixed dates for this. So, it can be done in summer, winter, Diwali, on weekends when we have it, and so that happens, um, for around 5 days of 20 hours, and post that, we would have one-on-one sessions with the student to take it forward as well as, you know, uh, applying to competitions and the internship. So, that's just a little bit of a difference in the group and the individual. So, going back to the phase one, which is from idea to launch, what we do is we really want students to come up with a problem that requires a solution. You know, sometimes you feel like, uh, "Oh, I have this really cool idea and I want to work on this." But if nobody is going to buy what you have, what you're selling, or, you know, use what you're actually producing, there's no point, right? So, we try and find the right problem for them to be able to build a solution. So, a lot of customer discovery, talking to people, doing a little bit of competitive research, going deeper and seeing what is there in the market, and once we actually finalize the problem, you know, get the right solution that they should build, then we actually freeze on a name, go deeper, create like a website or a landing page, create a deck, and then take it forward from there. So, this is the first phase, and then we go ahead in terms of mentorship, where we tie them up to mentors in that specific field. So, if a student launches something in design, or in STEM, or in tech, or even something related to health, we have mentors from different fields, from reputed colleges, or founders themselves who have that experience, to be able to take them forward. So, they will give them one-on-one sessions to help them actually execute and go further. We then also help them with competitions, and then we have the option of an internship as well. So, these are some of the founders that we actually, some of the mentors that we work with, from, you know, from mentors who went to Harvard, to, you know, people who've, on the sports field, to Google for Startups. We have 25 to 30 mentors in different fields, and we're just adding to that. So, we try and keep that very personalized in terms of, it's a very structured mentorship program, where we have different students, uh, different mentors, you know, for each student. And we try and keep it very personalized, so that they know this is, you know, this is what the student has done and how to help them take it forward. So, each student will have like a goal in place and, "This is what I want to do at the end of it." And that's what we try and help them achieve. Of course, not everyone's goals are reached. If they have really, uh, you know, unachievable goals, we try to keep them very realistic, given the time and the, um, bandwidth that these students have, right? Um, so also in terms of competitions, we help them in different competitions, like Diamond Challenge, Blue Ocean. Depending on what their idea or their project is, we we support them in two competitions over the, you know, months that we have, and in case the competitions are happening later, post the 3, 4 months, that also we will help them. So, that's not a problem. So, these are some of the startups we work with in terms of, um, for them for internships, all types of, um, startups. Again, we would ask students what their interests are, what, you know, they would like to do, and keeping that in mind, we'd help them match them. So, what do students actually walk away with? Um, they'll walk away with a launch product or a service, you know, mentorship from really interesting founders and people from reputed colleges, help them with the competitions, and they genuinely have a true, authentic story to be able to show that, "I am a student who had that drive to be able to start my own thing, and this is what I've done over the last few months, over the last year." And it's a genuine story for essays, for interviews, for whatever else that they have, to be able to talk about. If they do exceptionally well, we also help them with recommendation letters if the mentor is, you know, who feels they want to give a recommendation letter, and of course, we have the internships as well. So, just taking you through what some of our students have created, honestly, these are just a few. Um, they all have done amazing jobs. Some have built small things, some have built larger things, but at the end of the day, they've put their heart and soul, and actually created something amazing. So, let's start with Raghav. Um, Raghav was a student who who felt that, um, teenagers like himself didn't really, don't really read the newspapers, right? They don't have time, and they're so used to these bite-size videos. So, he said, "Why don't I use AI for this, collate data from AI, and then create bite-size videos." So, that's what he's created in a brief today. Atulya was looking at, um, a fresh way to connect with mental health, um, and holistic, uh, healing experts. So, from what is a psychologist, to a psychiatrist, to a counselor, to a, you know, therapist, to Reiki healer, like all kinds of people in the in the health space, is who she's got together. Amayra felt like she wanted to build a sports accessory line using sustainable and, uh, reusable material, so that's what she's done. Rehaan just felt he wanted everyone to be fit, and so he's created something for, um, people to get fitter. Uh, Samay's idea was a pure impact social-driven, um, project where he said, "You and I have so many things we want to give away, but we don't know where to give, and there's so many NGOs who require things on a regular basis. So, why not bridge that gap, and, you know, help NGOs and people like us connect with each other." So, in his first few days, he had Teach For India, who was on-boarded. So, it was quite an amazing, um, achievement for him. Anushka, someone who's super-smart, she wanted to create a Chrome extension for people, like, you know, today online you see so many images, you don't know whether they're real or they're AI-driven. So, she created a Chrome extension where when you right click on it, you'll realize whether that image is AI or not. So, these are just some of the projects that they've done. I mean, lots of different ones, from pet space, to, you know, health, to even like very sport-related. So, these are some of the testimonials we've had, students from reputed college, uh, schools across India, as well as, you know, from the US like, uh, Wilbraham & Monson we have, someone from Singapore, um, you know, from Bombay International, IIT as well, so all kinds of students we've had. Um, really, really great feedback and just keeps us going and gives us that energy to help students even more. So, I'm going to just show you a quick video.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t006] [spk:3] I think initially he was very reluctant to even go for this, but I think once he started the program, the self motivation and the excitement about what he is ready to create, which was phenomenal for me to see.
=== BLOCK 4 | label spk:3 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t006..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t006 (idx 5-5) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t004] [spk:2] Yeah, I have given her the co-host access.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t005] [Anisha] Yeah. So, can you see my screen, or is it me, you can see? Yeah, okay, perfect. So, thank you so much, thank you Bhakti, thank you TOC team, I'm very excited to be here, and great opportunity for me to actually tell you guys about what we do at Status Sky. So, I'm happy to be here, and great to see a lot of people here. I think I know a few of you all, but hopefully at the end of the day, I'll know all of you all. So, um, just getting right into it, before we actually get into it, just a few of you all here, want to ask you all, um, when has been the last time that you've had a student come to you and ask you, "How do I really stand out? And how do I actually make myself really be seen with so many applications and so many people applying for colleges?" Any, show of hands, anyone's had that, had any student ask you that? Yeah, I can see quite a few of you all, right? So, um, that's what we actually do at Status Sky. You know, the problem is that there's so many students out there. I mean, you know, right, when you picture this, picture a student who's smart, who's capable, who has the good grades, but with so many students out there, how do they really stand out, right? So, that's what we do at Status Sky. We help students start their own projects or their own businesses. Uh, this is for 13 years plus, so we help them build their own businesses, you know, compete in competitions across the world, internships, as well as creating their own real, genuine story about what they're doing. So, all our curriculum has been reviewed and guided by academic mentors at Harvard and IIT, and um, we really are trying to help students build something that they are passionate about and something that they can keep going for a period of time. So, it doesn't just stop at starting something, we help and we focus on execution. So, I'm just moving on. So, the way our program works is, um, we have different phases. So, the phases are, you know, divided into different parts, and we'll go deeper into each of them, but the first phase is primarily going from idea to launch. So, in this idea to launch, you know, we have a lot of students who come to us who don't have ideas, which is totally fine. I would say 85% don't have an idea, and that's totally okay. So, what we do is, we actually try to get to know the student a little better, see what their interests are, what type of person they are, of course, very important, how much time do they have, right? Because these students are so busy they don't have time. So, keeping all of that in mind, also in terms of what kind of, um, you know, project do they want to do. So, all of that keeping that in mind, we actually take them, help them go forward. Then, we have mentors who actually help them execute, we build them up in terms of the competitions, and then we have our internship. So, let me go a little deeper into each of them. Um, and before we do that, actually, we have two program tracks. So, one is an individual track, which is you can start honestly anytime you want. So, it's very personalized, it's one-on-one, which happens online. You could have multiple mentors, um, basically from idea to launch to execution to the competitions, all of that is done individually. The group track is a little different. The group part of it works in the first phase, where we go from idea to launching something. So, this is, this can be done either online, uh, we've had offline sessions in Mumbai, as of now, just in Mumbai, and the first part of it, which is the idea to launch, happens in a group of about 6 to 10 kids. We have fixed dates for this. So, it can be done in summer, winter, Diwali, on weekends when we have it, and so that happens, um, for around 5 days of 20 hours, and post that, we would have one-on-one sessions with the student to take it forward as well as, you know, uh, applying to competitions and the internship. So, that's just a little bit of a difference in the group and the individual. So, going back to the phase one, which is from idea to launch, what we do is we really want students to come up with a problem that requires a solution. You know, sometimes you feel like, uh, "Oh, I have this really cool idea and I want to work on this." But if nobody is going to buy what you have, what you're selling, or, you know, use what you're actually producing, there's no point, right? So, we try and find the right problem for them to be able to build a solution. So, a lot of customer discovery, talking to people, doing a little bit of competitive research, going deeper and seeing what is there in the market, and once we actually finalize the problem, you know, get the right solution that they should build, then we actually freeze on a name, go deeper, create like a website or a landing page, create a deck, and then take it forward from there. So, this is the first phase, and then we go ahead in terms of mentorship, where we tie them up to mentors in that specific field. So, if a student launches something in design, or in STEM, or in tech, or even something related to health, we have mentors from different fields, from reputed colleges, or founders themselves who have that experience, to be able to take them forward. So, they will give them one-on-one sessions to help them actually execute and go further. We then also help them with competitions, and then we have the option of an internship as well. So, these are some of the founders that we actually, some of the mentors that we work with, from, you know, from mentors who went to Harvard, to, you know, people who've, on the sports field, to Google for Startups. We have 25 to 30 mentors in different fields, and we're just adding to that. So, we try and keep that very personalized in terms of, it's a very structured mentorship program, where we have different students, uh, different mentors, you know, for each student. And we try and keep it very personalized, so that they know this is, you know, this is what the student has done and how to help them take it forward. So, each student will have like a goal in place and, "This is what I want to do at the end of it." And that's what we try and help them achieve. Of course, not everyone's goals are reached. If they have really, uh, you know, unachievable goals, we try to keep them very realistic, given the time and the, um, bandwidth that these students have, right? Um, so also in terms of competitions, we help them in different competitions, like Diamond Challenge, Blue Ocean. Depending on what their idea or their project is, we we support them in two competitions over the, you know, months that we have, and in case the competitions are happening later, post the 3, 4 months, that also we will help them. So, that's not a problem. So, these are some of the startups we work with in terms of, um, for them for internships, all types of, um, startups. Again, we would ask students what their interests are, what, you know, they would like to do, and keeping that in mind, we'd help them match them. So, what do students actually walk away with? Um, they'll walk away with a launch product or a service, you know, mentorship from really interesting founders and people from reputed colleges, help them with the competitions, and they genuinely have a true, authentic story to be able to show that, "I am a student who had that drive to be able to start my own thing, and this is what I've done over the last few months, over the last year." And it's a genuine story for essays, for interviews, for whatever else that they have, to be able to talk about. If they do exceptionally well, we also help them with recommendation letters if the mentor is, you know, who feels they want to give a recommendation letter, and of course, we have the internships as well. So, just taking you through what some of our students have created, honestly, these are just a few. Um, they all have done amazing jobs. Some have built small things, some have built larger things, but at the end of the day, they've put their heart and soul, and actually created something amazing. So, let's start with Raghav. Um, Raghav was a student who who felt that, um, teenagers like himself didn't really, don't really read the newspapers, right? They don't have time, and they're so used to these bite-size videos. So, he said, "Why don't I use AI for this, collate data from AI, and then create bite-size videos." So, that's what he's created in a brief today. Atulya was looking at, um, a fresh way to connect with mental health, um, and holistic, uh, healing experts. So, from what is a psychologist, to a psychiatrist, to a counselor, to a, you know, therapist, to Reiki healer, like all kinds of people in the in the health space, is who she's got together. Amayra felt like she wanted to build a sports accessory line using sustainable and, uh, reusable material, so that's what she's done. Rehaan just felt he wanted everyone to be fit, and so he's created something for, um, people to get fitter. Uh, Samay's idea was a pure impact social-driven, um, project where he said, "You and I have so many things we want to give away, but we don't know where to give, and there's so many NGOs who require things on a regular basis. So, why not bridge that gap, and, you know, help NGOs and people like us connect with each other." So, in his first few days, he had Teach For India, who was on-boarded. So, it was quite an amazing, um, achievement for him. Anushka, someone who's super-smart, she wanted to create a Chrome extension for people, like, you know, today online you see so many images, you don't know whether they're real or they're AI-driven. So, she created a Chrome extension where when you right click on it, you'll realize whether that image is AI or not. So, these are just some of the projects that they've done. I mean, lots of different ones, from pet space, to, you know, health, to even like very sport-related. So, these are some of the testimonials we've had, students from reputed college, uh, schools across India, as well as, you know, from the US like, uh, Wilbraham & Monson we have, someone from Singapore, um, you know, from Bombay International, IIT as well, so all kinds of students we've had. Um, really, really great feedback and just keeps us going and gives us that energy to help students even more. So, I'm going to just show you a quick video.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t006] [spk:3] I think initially he was very reluctant to even go for this, but I think once he started the program, the self motivation and the excitement about what he is ready to create, which was phenomenal for me to see.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t007] [spk:4] I think the energy has really kind of ramped up and I've seen the enthusiasm with which she's kind of jumped into doing the project that she's created for herself.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t008] [spk:3] And I think what's most amazing about this is that did all of this in 5 days, which is truly commendable.
=== BLOCK 5 | label spk:4 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t007..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t007 (idx 6-6) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t005] [Anisha] Yeah. So, can you see my screen, or is it me, you can see? Yeah, okay, perfect. So, thank you so much, thank you Bhakti, thank you TOC team, I'm very excited to be here, and great opportunity for me to actually tell you guys about what we do at Status Sky. So, I'm happy to be here, and great to see a lot of people here. I think I know a few of you all, but hopefully at the end of the day, I'll know all of you all. So, um, just getting right into it, before we actually get into it, just a few of you all here, want to ask you all, um, when has been the last time that you've had a student come to you and ask you, "How do I really stand out? And how do I actually make myself really be seen with so many applications and so many people applying for colleges?" Any, show of hands, anyone's had that, had any student ask you that? Yeah, I can see quite a few of you all, right? So, um, that's what we actually do at Status Sky. You know, the problem is that there's so many students out there. I mean, you know, right, when you picture this, picture a student who's smart, who's capable, who has the good grades, but with so many students out there, how do they really stand out, right? So, that's what we do at Status Sky. We help students start their own projects or their own businesses. Uh, this is for 13 years plus, so we help them build their own businesses, you know, compete in competitions across the world, internships, as well as creating their own real, genuine story about what they're doing. So, all our curriculum has been reviewed and guided by academic mentors at Harvard and IIT, and um, we really are trying to help students build something that they are passionate about and something that they can keep going for a period of time. So, it doesn't just stop at starting something, we help and we focus on execution. So, I'm just moving on. So, the way our program works is, um, we have different phases. So, the phases are, you know, divided into different parts, and we'll go deeper into each of them, but the first phase is primarily going from idea to launch. So, in this idea to launch, you know, we have a lot of students who come to us who don't have ideas, which is totally fine. I would say 85% don't have an idea, and that's totally okay. So, what we do is, we actually try to get to know the student a little better, see what their interests are, what type of person they are, of course, very important, how much time do they have, right? Because these students are so busy they don't have time. So, keeping all of that in mind, also in terms of what kind of, um, you know, project do they want to do. So, all of that keeping that in mind, we actually take them, help them go forward. Then, we have mentors who actually help them execute, we build them up in terms of the competitions, and then we have our internship. So, let me go a little deeper into each of them. Um, and before we do that, actually, we have two program tracks. So, one is an individual track, which is you can start honestly anytime you want. So, it's very personalized, it's one-on-one, which happens online. You could have multiple mentors, um, basically from idea to launch to execution to the competitions, all of that is done individually. The group track is a little different. The group part of it works in the first phase, where we go from idea to launching something. So, this is, this can be done either online, uh, we've had offline sessions in Mumbai, as of now, just in Mumbai, and the first part of it, which is the idea to launch, happens in a group of about 6 to 10 kids. We have fixed dates for this. So, it can be done in summer, winter, Diwali, on weekends when we have it, and so that happens, um, for around 5 days of 20 hours, and post that, we would have one-on-one sessions with the student to take it forward as well as, you know, uh, applying to competitions and the internship. So, that's just a little bit of a difference in the group and the individual. So, going back to the phase one, which is from idea to launch, what we do is we really want students to come up with a problem that requires a solution. You know, sometimes you feel like, uh, "Oh, I have this really cool idea and I want to work on this." But if nobody is going to buy what you have, what you're selling, or, you know, use what you're actually producing, there's no point, right? So, we try and find the right problem for them to be able to build a solution. So, a lot of customer discovery, talking to people, doing a little bit of competitive research, going deeper and seeing what is there in the market, and once we actually finalize the problem, you know, get the right solution that they should build, then we actually freeze on a name, go deeper, create like a website or a landing page, create a deck, and then take it forward from there. So, this is the first phase, and then we go ahead in terms of mentorship, where we tie them up to mentors in that specific field. So, if a student launches something in design, or in STEM, or in tech, or even something related to health, we have mentors from different fields, from reputed colleges, or founders themselves who have that experience, to be able to take them forward. So, they will give them one-on-one sessions to help them actually execute and go further. We then also help them with competitions, and then we have the option of an internship as well. So, these are some of the founders that we actually, some of the mentors that we work with, from, you know, from mentors who went to Harvard, to, you know, people who've, on the sports field, to Google for Startups. We have 25 to 30 mentors in different fields, and we're just adding to that. So, we try and keep that very personalized in terms of, it's a very structured mentorship program, where we have different students, uh, different mentors, you know, for each student. And we try and keep it very personalized, so that they know this is, you know, this is what the student has done and how to help them take it forward. So, each student will have like a goal in place and, "This is what I want to do at the end of it." And that's what we try and help them achieve. Of course, not everyone's goals are reached. If they have really, uh, you know, unachievable goals, we try to keep them very realistic, given the time and the, um, bandwidth that these students have, right? Um, so also in terms of competitions, we help them in different competitions, like Diamond Challenge, Blue Ocean. Depending on what their idea or their project is, we we support them in two competitions over the, you know, months that we have, and in case the competitions are happening later, post the 3, 4 months, that also we will help them. So, that's not a problem. So, these are some of the startups we work with in terms of, um, for them for internships, all types of, um, startups. Again, we would ask students what their interests are, what, you know, they would like to do, and keeping that in mind, we'd help them match them. So, what do students actually walk away with? Um, they'll walk away with a launch product or a service, you know, mentorship from really interesting founders and people from reputed colleges, help them with the competitions, and they genuinely have a true, authentic story to be able to show that, "I am a student who had that drive to be able to start my own thing, and this is what I've done over the last few months, over the last year." And it's a genuine story for essays, for interviews, for whatever else that they have, to be able to talk about. If they do exceptionally well, we also help them with recommendation letters if the mentor is, you know, who feels they want to give a recommendation letter, and of course, we have the internships as well. So, just taking you through what some of our students have created, honestly, these are just a few. Um, they all have done amazing jobs. Some have built small things, some have built larger things, but at the end of the day, they've put their heart and soul, and actually created something amazing. So, let's start with Raghav. Um, Raghav was a student who who felt that, um, teenagers like himself didn't really, don't really read the newspapers, right? They don't have time, and they're so used to these bite-size videos. So, he said, "Why don't I use AI for this, collate data from AI, and then create bite-size videos." So, that's what he's created in a brief today. Atulya was looking at, um, a fresh way to connect with mental health, um, and holistic, uh, healing experts. So, from what is a psychologist, to a psychiatrist, to a counselor, to a, you know, therapist, to Reiki healer, like all kinds of people in the in the health space, is who she's got together. Amayra felt like she wanted to build a sports accessory line using sustainable and, uh, reusable material, so that's what she's done. Rehaan just felt he wanted everyone to be fit, and so he's created something for, um, people to get fitter. Uh, Samay's idea was a pure impact social-driven, um, project where he said, "You and I have so many things we want to give away, but we don't know where to give, and there's so many NGOs who require things on a regular basis. So, why not bridge that gap, and, you know, help NGOs and people like us connect with each other." So, in his first few days, he had Teach For India, who was on-boarded. So, it was quite an amazing, um, achievement for him. Anushka, someone who's super-smart, she wanted to create a Chrome extension for people, like, you know, today online you see so many images, you don't know whether they're real or they're AI-driven. So, she created a Chrome extension where when you right click on it, you'll realize whether that image is AI or not. So, these are just some of the projects that they've done. I mean, lots of different ones, from pet space, to, you know, health, to even like very sport-related. So, these are some of the testimonials we've had, students from reputed college, uh, schools across India, as well as, you know, from the US like, uh, Wilbraham & Monson we have, someone from Singapore, um, you know, from Bombay International, IIT as well, so all kinds of students we've had. Um, really, really great feedback and just keeps us going and gives us that energy to help students even more. So, I'm going to just show you a quick video.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t006] [spk:3] I think initially he was very reluctant to even go for this, but I think once he started the program, the self motivation and the excitement about what he is ready to create, which was phenomenal for me to see.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t007] [spk:4] I think the energy has really kind of ramped up and I've seen the enthusiasm with which she's kind of jumped into doing the project that she's created for herself.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t008] [spk:3] And I think what's most amazing about this is that did all of this in 5 days, which is truly commendable.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t009] [spk:4] You know, I think this will work and I don't think it's a short term thing, it's something that he can he can continue it, it started from an idea.
=== BLOCK 6 | label spk:3 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t008..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t008 (idx 7-7) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t006] [spk:3] I think initially he was very reluctant to even go for this, but I think once he started the program, the self motivation and the excitement about what he is ready to create, which was phenomenal for me to see.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t007] [spk:4] I think the energy has really kind of ramped up and I've seen the enthusiasm with which she's kind of jumped into doing the project that she's created for herself.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t008] [spk:3] And I think what's most amazing about this is that did all of this in 5 days, which is truly commendable.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t009] [spk:4] You know, I think this will work and I don't think it's a short term thing, it's something that he can he can continue it, it started from an idea.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t010] [spk:5] This week, I did what I never thought I could do, was was actually launch my own product. As earlier, I did not know how to go about it, as I didn't know the real steps that I had to take to actually launch a product. Before, I was just a student studying at BIS, now I'm a founder of a proper company, which solves problems in the community.
=== BLOCK 7 | label spk:4 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t009..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t009 (idx 8-8) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t007] [spk:4] I think the energy has really kind of ramped up and I've seen the enthusiasm with which she's kind of jumped into doing the project that she's created for herself.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t008] [spk:3] And I think what's most amazing about this is that did all of this in 5 days, which is truly commendable.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t009] [spk:4] You know, I think this will work and I don't think it's a short term thing, it's something that he can he can continue it, it started from an idea.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t010] [spk:5] This week, I did what I never thought I could do, was was actually launch my own product. As earlier, I did not know how to go about it, as I didn't know the real steps that I had to take to actually launch a product. Before, I was just a student studying at BIS, now I'm a founder of a proper company, which solves problems in the community.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t011] [Anisha] Yeah. So, that was a video that we, uh, have, had done it at, uh, BIS, in their school. So, these are some of the questions that a lot of people ask us is, "What if students don't have technical skills? Um, will they be able to create a website or a landing page?" Totally fine. We help them. We use AI tools. Uh, we'll show them how to actually use it. Um, "Who do we work with at Status Sky?" We work with schools, we work with counselors, we work with universities, um, students, parents of course. "Does this help in profile building?" I think this is a big question that we constantly get. Yes, we do help you, I mean, this helps a lot because it just shows that, um, shows that difference in your profile, so definitely it's a standout that you can use. Um, the cost is 75,000 plus tax if you do it in a group, and 90,000 plus tax if you do it individually. "When can I start?" You can start on a one-on-one anytime, uh, you just have to reach out to us. We would have a call with you. We have certain things that we'd like to know about you before you start. And for a group, we,
=== BLOCK 8 | label spk:5 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t010..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t010 (idx 9-9) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t008] [spk:3] And I think what's most amazing about this is that did all of this in 5 days, which is truly commendable.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t009] [spk:4] You know, I think this will work and I don't think it's a short term thing, it's something that he can he can continue it, it started from an idea.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t010] [spk:5] This week, I did what I never thought I could do, was was actually launch my own product. As earlier, I did not know how to go about it, as I didn't know the real steps that I had to take to actually launch a product. Before, I was just a student studying at BIS, now I'm a founder of a proper company, which solves problems in the community.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t011] [Anisha] Yeah. So, that was a video that we, uh, have, had done it at, uh, BIS, in their school. So, these are some of the questions that a lot of people ask us is, "What if students don't have technical skills? Um, will they be able to create a website or a landing page?" Totally fine. We help them. We use AI tools. Uh, we'll show them how to actually use it. Um, "Who do we work with at Status Sky?" We work with schools, we work with counselors, we work with universities, um, students, parents of course. "Does this help in profile building?" I think this is a big question that we constantly get. Yes, we do help you, I mean, this helps a lot because it just shows that, um, shows that difference in your profile, so definitely it's a standout that you can use. Um, the cost is 75,000 plus tax if you do it in a group, and 90,000 plus tax if you do it individually. "When can I start?" You can start on a one-on-one anytime, uh, you just have to reach out to us. We would have a call with you. We have certain things that we'd like to know about you before you start. And for a group, we,
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t012] [spk:1] Anisha, sorry to barge in. You've only 2 minutes left. Okay?
=== BLOCK 9 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t012..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t012 (idx 11-11) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t010] [spk:5] This week, I did what I never thought I could do, was was actually launch my own product. As earlier, I did not know how to go about it, as I didn't know the real steps that I had to take to actually launch a product. Before, I was just a student studying at BIS, now I'm a founder of a proper company, which solves problems in the community.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t011] [Anisha] Yeah. So, that was a video that we, uh, have, had done it at, uh, BIS, in their school. So, these are some of the questions that a lot of people ask us is, "What if students don't have technical skills? Um, will they be able to create a website or a landing page?" Totally fine. We help them. We use AI tools. Uh, we'll show them how to actually use it. Um, "Who do we work with at Status Sky?" We work with schools, we work with counselors, we work with universities, um, students, parents of course. "Does this help in profile building?" I think this is a big question that we constantly get. Yes, we do help you, I mean, this helps a lot because it just shows that, um, shows that difference in your profile, so definitely it's a standout that you can use. Um, the cost is 75,000 plus tax if you do it in a group, and 90,000 plus tax if you do it individually. "When can I start?" You can start on a one-on-one anytime, uh, you just have to reach out to us. We would have a call with you. We have certain things that we'd like to know about you before you start. And for a group, we,
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t012] [spk:1] Anisha, sorry to barge in. You've only 2 minutes left. Okay?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t013] [Anisha] Yeah. Yeah, yeah, I'm done. This was my last thing. So, um, the last thing is if you want to start in a group, we have fixed dates which are available on our website, and August 14th is our next cohort that's starting. And, uh, just ending it at, you know, "Grades get students noticed, but building something gets them remembered." So, thank you so much.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t014] [spk:1] Okay. Thank you, Anisha. Thanks for the presentation, and we'll take up these questions, uh, on the chat later on, uh, just to get the, you know, people started. Sorry, I'm very bad at hosting. This is learning that way. So, guys, excuse me. Uh, I, without further ado, uh, let me welcome Shithij on the stage. Shithij?
=== BLOCK 10 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t014..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t014 (idx 13-13) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t012] [spk:1] Anisha, sorry to barge in. You've only 2 minutes left. Okay?
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t013] [Anisha] Yeah. Yeah, yeah, I'm done. This was my last thing. So, um, the last thing is if you want to start in a group, we have fixed dates which are available on our website, and August 14th is our next cohort that's starting. And, uh, just ending it at, you know, "Grades get students noticed, but building something gets them remembered." So, thank you so much.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t014] [spk:1] Okay. Thank you, Anisha. Thanks for the presentation, and we'll take up these questions, uh, on the chat later on, uh, just to get the, you know, people started. Sorry, I'm very bad at hosting. This is learning that way. So, guys, excuse me. Uh, I, without further ado, uh, let me welcome Shithij on the stage. Shithij?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t015] [Shithij] Hi, Nikhil.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t016] [spk:1] Are you there?
=== BLOCK 11 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t016..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t016 (idx 15-15) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t014] [spk:1] Okay. Thank you, Anisha. Thanks for the presentation, and we'll take up these questions, uh, on the chat later on, uh, just to get the, you know, people started. Sorry, I'm very bad at hosting. This is learning that way. So, guys, excuse me. Uh, I, without further ado, uh, let me welcome Shithij on the stage. Shithij?
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t015] [Shithij] Hi, Nikhil.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t016] [spk:1] Are you there?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t017] [Shithij] Yes, I am.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t018] [spk:1] Where are you? I can't see you.
=== BLOCK 12 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t018..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t018 (idx 17-17) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t016] [spk:1] Are you there?
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t017] [Shithij] Yes, I am.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t018] [spk:1] Where are you? I can't see you.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t019] [Shithij] Right, can you hear me?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t020] [spk:1] I can see you now. Perfect. The stage is all yours, buddy.
=== BLOCK 13 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t020..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t020 (idx 19-19) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t018] [spk:1] Where are you? I can't see you.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t019] [Shithij] Right, can you hear me?
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t020] [spk:1] I can see you now. Perfect. The stage is all yours, buddy.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t021] [Shithij] Thank you. Just share my slides as well.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t022] [spk:1] Yeah. Let me first introduce Shithij. Shithij runs Astero Education Services. I know him from PIE Awards, bit of personal, he took my award on my behalf on the PIE News, so I'm always in debt to him for his support. Um, but yeah, Astero is a 14 years old experience, um, exclusively focused on New Zealand as a destination. Astero helps school counselors, university representative, independent consultant, and study abroad agencies build stronger New Zealand education opportunities. And, uh, they offer direct access to all the major top-notch eight New Zealand universities, articulations, partnerships, support, academic and leadership exchanges, counselor training, and student engagement activities. The guy has been all over New Zealand for a decade and more. What more can I say? Over to you, Shithij.
=== BLOCK 14 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t022..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t022 (idx 21-21) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t020] [spk:1] I can see you now. Perfect. The stage is all yours, buddy.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t021] [Shithij] Thank you. Just share my slides as well.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t022] [spk:1] Yeah. Let me first introduce Shithij. Shithij runs Astero Education Services. I know him from PIE Awards, bit of personal, he took my award on my behalf on the PIE News, so I'm always in debt to him for his support. Um, but yeah, Astero is a 14 years old experience, um, exclusively focused on New Zealand as a destination. Astero helps school counselors, university representative, independent consultant, and study abroad agencies build stronger New Zealand education opportunities. And, uh, they offer direct access to all the major top-notch eight New Zealand universities, articulations, partnerships, support, academic and leadership exchanges, counselor training, and student engagement activities. The guy has been all over New Zealand for a decade and more. What more can I say? Over to you, Shithij.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t023] [Shithij] Thank you, Nikhil, for a very, uh, warm welcome. Uh, hello, everyone. Uh, this is probably the second or the third time when I am able to, you know, come out and talk about New Zealand. Uh, I've been working with a few independent education counselors already, so thank you for, thank you to TOC and, uh, Bhakti and the entire team for giving that support from TOC. Uh, I've been a student of New Zealand. Uh, I'm also the alumni coordinator for University of Auckland. And I think in the last 14 years of us being in operations promoting New Zealand, uh, we have successfully positioned ourselves as a very active stakeholder for, uh, New Zealand's, higher education, uh, and rather less as an agency. So, uh, what I would like to share today is how we can bring together, uh, New Zealand's, uh, education opportunities closer to your students and create meaningful values for the opportunities that we all serve for. Got a small activity over here, and this is, uh, based on my, you know, counseling and all the interactions I've had with number of counselors, university professionals, uh, independent education counselors, etc., that there's always a gap in terms of what New Zealand is generally perceived versus what New Zealand, uh, actually has to offer. So, what I can, uh, quickly, if I can ask everyone to, you know, take your phones, scan the QR code, and we'll do a small quiz over here. Uh, we don't need, there will be there will be no there won't be any personal details shared, you don't need to put your emails, etc., but all you need to do is scan the QR code and, uh, we will start a short quiz, uh, and the one who actually wins gets a small something from us, uh, coming your way. We'll take a couple of minutes. I can already see a few people who have registered. I've got seven people in here. Uh, the the the quiz is nothing about testing your knowledge. Uh, it's about understanding what New Zealand has to offer, what New Zealand is generally perceived as. There's no registration, there are no emails, no personal information required. Uh, if, you know, many of these facts, uh, they surprise you today, imagine how much value this will bring to your knowledge to add to the students we guide every day. I've got a few locked in. I'll wait for a minute more and then I'll press the button to start the quiz straightaway. Cool, I'll start this now. Uh, you will see all the questions coming onto your mobile phone and there we go as your first question.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t024] [Shithij] Cool, so this was the first fun fact. Uh, majority of the people have mentioned that, uh, only 25% of New Zealand universities rank in the top 500, but you'll be surprised to know that New Zealand has eight universities in total, and all the eight universities rank in the top 500 universities of the world. In fact, New Zealand is the only English-speaking country in the world to have all its state universities in the top 500 universities of the world, as per the QS rankings. Moving to the second question.
=== BLOCK 15 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t030..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t030 (idx 29-29) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t028] [Shithij] The system is waiting for somebody to join back, somebody has logged off because of the internet.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t029] [Shithij] Cool, while somebody is joining, uh, over here, uh, what I want to, uh, talk to you about right now is you have gone through six, seven questions already, and you would have seen how New Zealand is generally being perceived and what the actual information, uh, is in terms of the factual information available from the government and various sources. And this is one of the reasons why we always feel that New Zealand lacks that knowledge, it lacks the awareness in market about what New Zealand has to offer to international students. New Zealand does not make a lot of noise as compared to other destinations like US, UK, Australia, Canada, and that is one reason why New Zealand is left mostly as a lifestyle choice for international students. New Zealand has got much more to offer, uh, there are a lot of things that are available, there are a lot of opportunities that New Zealand has. In fact, New Zealand has got one of the strongest passports in the world, and there is a joke in the market today that, you know, it is much more easier to go to Australia while studying in New Zealand as compared to getting a visa for Australia directly. So, if I talk about New Zealand, uh, as a destination and what Astero has done, uh, we are a very New Zealand-focused agency. For the last 15 years, we have been focusing only on New Zealand as a destination. And while we do so, we work with universities, we work with high schools, we work with education consultants, as well as students directly. We have created a lot of collaboration opportunities, uh, we have multiple events, uh, that take place around the year where the students get access to meeting the universities one-to-one. Uh, we work with universities in India to create a lot of joint programs, a lot of dual degree programs, uh, under the new education policy. We do, uh, we also have multiple, uh, skill-based tours arranged for the high school students. In fact, uh, I have been involved with all the eight universities to create these, uh, programs to ensure that students have the access to New Zealand. And and we feel that generally with New Zealand, the students have the fear of unknown, a lot of parents have the fear of unknown, and a lot of counselors have the fear of unknown, because they have never been exposed to New Zealand, uh, in person. And to bring that opportunity down to the student, we are creating a lot of these study-based tours or even just cultural immersion programs where the students can stay in New Zealand for a period of 10 days, they can hop from one university to another, just to understand how the universities are, what the universities have to offer, and the resources available at each university. When we do so, the idea is to give more confidence to the counselors, give more confidence to the parents as well as students to ensure that when they come back, they feel more confident about what New Zealand has to offer. This has been our journey for the last 15 years, uh, we span across nine physical offices across India, Nepal, as well as Dubai. Uh, in the last 15 years, we have counseled more than more than 10,000 students, uh, and what sets us apart is our student visa approval rate. For the last 15 years, we have been averaging about 92% student visa approval rate. Uh, last year when India was almost 53%, we were still clocking about 85% on our approval rates. We work with every university, every institution, every private college, uh, directly. In fact, we are a preferred partner for most of the institutions, uh, based out of New Zealand. In 2026 alone, which is an ongoing year, we have already helped students with scholarships worth more than three and a half crore rupees. We are currently working with more than 15 Indian universities on 2+2, 1+1 programs. These universities include Manav Rachna, Institute of International Research and Studies, we work with Atlas Skilltech University, Dayananda Sagar University in Bangalore, Lovely Professional University in Jalandhar, etc., and these are all our exclusive partners with whom we work very extensively, and we work very much as part of their international office. Uh, in the last year, 2025, we had more than 50 academics who traveled from New Zealand to India, where they were doing block program deliveries, they were doing academic guest lectures to show them how teaching is done in New Zealand, and also to talk about a lot of research collaboration between India and New Zealand. We also had a lot of academics who visited high schools in India to just talk about what it takes to become a lawyer, what it takes to become an engineer, etc., and to share those skills that are required for them to be the best in whatever careers they choose. What we have built in the last 15 years is a lot of academic engagement. Uh, like I mentioned, uh, we have a UniTrack virtual lecture series, which we did last year, where we ran 5 days of very focused law-based workshops from the academics of New Zealand universities. These workshops were different, uh, they were created in a very different manner, where we picked up a certain major within the field of law to tell the students what it takes to become a part of that particular area and what are the career objectives and the career prospects in that particular area. So, when we did this, uh, last year with the area of law, we had a session each on intellectual property law, cyber security law, artificial intelligence law today, for example, which is not very, uh, I would say, commonly heard of, but AI law, cyber security law has become a major subject in New Zealand to study because New Zealand feels this will be something that will be highly in demand going in the future. Uh, we have a lot of career exploration workshops, uh, we recently did a workshop, uh, for about 15 students who were taken to New Zealand and they were able to go behind the scenes on Wētā FX. They could touch the swords of Game of Thrones, they could touch the costumes of Stranger Things, etc. They were given a task of creating a showreel after 15 days, but during those 15 days, they used to spend 1 day in the industry under the mentorship of Academy Award winners, and on the second day, they were at the university to practically apply what they learned the day before. At the end of 15 days, we had some really amazing work that we saw, and we run such workshops across multiple areas including artificial intelligence, uh, sustainability, food science, veterinary science, etc. There have been a lot of subject-focused webinars and academic masterclasses at New Zealand universities, as well, which, uh, the Indian universities have taken a lot of advantage for. Uh, we do a UniBridge exercise every alternate year, where we take high school counselors, as well as, uh, the international office of multiple Indian universities to New Zealand. Uh, they stay on campus for a day and they, uh, actually live in the student accommodations, as well. The idea is for them to experience what a student feels when they are on campus, and these UniBridge exercises for us have come back with a lot of positive feedback where the universities from India mentioned that we felt very different about New Zealand when, you know, somebody came to us saying, "I want to study in New Zealand." But now when they have actually experienced New Zealand first hand, they could actually feel more confident about people being very friendly, people being, uh, very nice to international students. Uh, there has been no racism in the country, and how the universities offer opportunities to international students. Last and foremost, which we have been involved in the last 2 years, is a lot of partnership and collaboration work. India and New Zealand have just signed an FTA. We had the Indian Prime Minister visiting New Zealand, uh, after almost 40 years, and there's a lot of buzz around the India-New Zealand relationship, and we're doing a lot of work within the India university and the New Zealand universities, as well as a lot of exchange programs between the Indian high schools, as well as the New Zealand high schools. So, how can we work with the TOC community? Because the TOC community has a lot of independent education counselors, they have agents, we have high schools, as well as Indian university representatives in there. So, if I start with high schools, uh, we can always bring the New Zealand universities, uh, to do workshops and to interact with the students one-to-one, where they will get one, first hand information about scholarships, entry requirements, as well as the programs that they have to offer. We can also deliver a lot of destination awareness sessions, just to pitch New Zealand as a destination, so that the students have it on their list when they're looking at different destinations to study. Uh, we have cultural immersion programs and campus immersion programs, uh, the campus immersion program for New Zealand is not heard of till date. We are the only organization which will be launching a campus immersion program. Our first cohort is set to leave in February, next year, and we will be sending out information about the New Zealand campus immersion program very soon. For the Indian university representatives, because under the New Education Policy, there's a big focus by the government to work on collaborations between the Indian universities and foreign universities, uh, we are able to, uh, support those articulation pathways of 1+1, 2+2 for bachelors, joint programs, uh, student mobility initiatives, where the students from India can go to New Zealand for internships, as well as the inbound mobility of New Zealand students coming to India for internships, as well as industry exposure. We have academics already based in India, who come on a residence program. They are able to be on the Indian university campuses for 2 to 3 weeks to deliver block programs on behalf of the Indian university, and because they're staying on campus for 3 weeks, they become the brand ambassadors for their respective university. They are able to share a lot of, uh, knowledge in terms of academic delivery, the teaching methodologies, between the two countries, as well as more importantly, there's a lot of work happening within the research collaboration between India and New Zealand. New Zealand has just opened a India-New Zealand Research Center, and under that, we are doing a lot of research collaboration between India and the New Zealand universities. We have a lot of skill-based short-term study programs, where the students can go overseas to New Zealand for a period of 2 weeks to 6 months, uh, based on, you know, their, uh, paying capacity, and they are able to expose themselves to the industry, to real world projects, internships, as well as just getting a feel-good factor about what New Zealand has to offer, how the job market is, and, uh, how can New Zealand universities help the student in upskilling themselves. In terms of the independent education counselors, I have had the privilege of working with a lot of, uh, IECs from TOC, and I would love to work with more. Uh, we involve the independent education counselors in a lot of delegations, uh, that we take to New Zealand. In fact, a lot of incoming delegations from New Zealand universities, we do love to involve the IECs as part of the regular destination updates and policy briefings. We have, uh, given them the access to do a lot of student-facing workshops. They have a free hand to bring their students into our webinars, information sessions, as well as events that we do in those in their particular cities, as well. All our checklists, all the resources that we have shared across the board, are available to the IECs to use, which will always help them in, uh, processing those applications, in giving the right information as well. Finally, the education consultants and agencies, uh, again, we give a lot of, uh, destination support to the student, right from the counseling to university engagement for the agents, and we work in collaboration with our, uh, education consultant associates in supporting the New Zealand-focused events, seminars, as well as campaigns. So, if you are looking at adding New Zealand to your portfolio of different countries that you are offering, I strongly believe that partnerships do create possibilities, and for New Zealand, the greatest opportunity in India is not the awareness, it is actually collaboration. Together, uh, we can bring the universities, academics, parents, schools, all of them closer to New Zealand, and make New Zealand within the reach of every student. You've got my contact details over here, uh, you can even scan the QR code to put in your information, and we will always be happy to connect with you, as well. That will be all from me. Uh, over to you, Nikhil.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t030] [spk:1] Thank you, Shithij. It was perfectly timed. Uh, thanks everyone for joining in. Yes, people. Questions? Astero is having a lot of questions. I'm pretty sure. Shithij has been my guy.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t031] [spk:6] I have a question. Sorry, I have a question for Anisha, as well. Um, Anisha, there is a lot of profile building happening. Yes, there is. Do, how many like, what do you think is, I mean, I just feel like, is there really that much demand? And it's a very honest question, are students really looking to do all this, and, if yes, I mean, is it like the sliver of the pie is just very thin and everyone wants like a little bit of it, or is it like there's a lot of demand in this place for everyone, just from a market perspective? Because I feel like, um, the number of experiential learning and skill learning companies, uh, in in just TOC, we have about 40, by the way. Um, it's very interesting. And, is there enough demand?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t032] [Anisha] So, honestly, Bhakti, it's a very relevant question. I think a lot of people, uh, look at us in terms of Status Sky, it's, we're helping you actually start your own project or own business. So, it's not necessarily to do with your profile. We have students as young as 12 and 13 coming to us, and we always ask them a question that if this was not helping you with applications, would you do it or not? And I would say 80% of them would say that yes, we would do it. So, these guys are genuinely interested in starting something. You know, how earlier it was doctor, lawyer, engineer, now entrepreneur has become another thing that people aspire to do. And I think they want to start something of their own, they are interested, of course, it adds to your profile and it's something that helps you stand out, but that's not necessarily the reason that they want to start. So, I think that's a great thing to see that our kids, all Indian kids are, you know, anyways, we are smarter than most people, I think. Um, but, generally I feel like, you know, when you see them that they are, you know, just inquisitive, they want to start something, they have that curiosity, it goes beyond just profile building. So, I feel like that's the kind of people that we are working with, and, um, always happy to support them.
=== BLOCK 16 | label spk:6 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t031..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t031 (idx 30-30) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t029] [Shithij] Cool, while somebody is joining, uh, over here, uh, what I want to, uh, talk to you about right now is you have gone through six, seven questions already, and you would have seen how New Zealand is generally being perceived and what the actual information, uh, is in terms of the factual information available from the government and various sources. And this is one of the reasons why we always feel that New Zealand lacks that knowledge, it lacks the awareness in market about what New Zealand has to offer to international students. New Zealand does not make a lot of noise as compared to other destinations like US, UK, Australia, Canada, and that is one reason why New Zealand is left mostly as a lifestyle choice for international students. New Zealand has got much more to offer, uh, there are a lot of things that are available, there are a lot of opportunities that New Zealand has. In fact, New Zealand has got one of the strongest passports in the world, and there is a joke in the market today that, you know, it is much more easier to go to Australia while studying in New Zealand as compared to getting a visa for Australia directly. So, if I talk about New Zealand, uh, as a destination and what Astero has done, uh, we are a very New Zealand-focused agency. For the last 15 years, we have been focusing only on New Zealand as a destination. And while we do so, we work with universities, we work with high schools, we work with education consultants, as well as students directly. We have created a lot of collaboration opportunities, uh, we have multiple events, uh, that take place around the year where the students get access to meeting the universities one-to-one. Uh, we work with universities in India to create a lot of joint programs, a lot of dual degree programs, uh, under the new education policy. We do, uh, we also have multiple, uh, skill-based tours arranged for the high school students. In fact, uh, I have been involved with all the eight universities to create these, uh, programs to ensure that students have the access to New Zealand. And and we feel that generally with New Zealand, the students have the fear of unknown, a lot of parents have the fear of unknown, and a lot of counselors have the fear of unknown, because they have never been exposed to New Zealand, uh, in person. And to bring that opportunity down to the student, we are creating a lot of these study-based tours or even just cultural immersion programs where the students can stay in New Zealand for a period of 10 days, they can hop from one university to another, just to understand how the universities are, what the universities have to offer, and the resources available at each university. When we do so, the idea is to give more confidence to the counselors, give more confidence to the parents as well as students to ensure that when they come back, they feel more confident about what New Zealand has to offer. This has been our journey for the last 15 years, uh, we span across nine physical offices across India, Nepal, as well as Dubai. Uh, in the last 15 years, we have counseled more than more than 10,000 students, uh, and what sets us apart is our student visa approval rate. For the last 15 years, we have been averaging about 92% student visa approval rate. Uh, last year when India was almost 53%, we were still clocking about 85% on our approval rates. We work with every university, every institution, every private college, uh, directly. In fact, we are a preferred partner for most of the institutions, uh, based out of New Zealand. In 2026 alone, which is an ongoing year, we have already helped students with scholarships worth more than three and a half crore rupees. We are currently working with more than 15 Indian universities on 2+2, 1+1 programs. These universities include Manav Rachna, Institute of International Research and Studies, we work with Atlas Skilltech University, Dayananda Sagar University in Bangalore, Lovely Professional University in Jalandhar, etc., and these are all our exclusive partners with whom we work very extensively, and we work very much as part of their international office. Uh, in the last year, 2025, we had more than 50 academics who traveled from New Zealand to India, where they were doing block program deliveries, they were doing academic guest lectures to show them how teaching is done in New Zealand, and also to talk about a lot of research collaboration between India and New Zealand. We also had a lot of academics who visited high schools in India to just talk about what it takes to become a lawyer, what it takes to become an engineer, etc., and to share those skills that are required for them to be the best in whatever careers they choose. What we have built in the last 15 years is a lot of academic engagement. Uh, like I mentioned, uh, we have a UniTrack virtual lecture series, which we did last year, where we ran 5 days of very focused law-based workshops from the academics of New Zealand universities. These workshops were different, uh, they were created in a very different manner, where we picked up a certain major within the field of law to tell the students what it takes to become a part of that particular area and what are the career objectives and the career prospects in that particular area. So, when we did this, uh, last year with the area of law, we had a session each on intellectual property law, cyber security law, artificial intelligence law today, for example, which is not very, uh, I would say, commonly heard of, but AI law, cyber security law has become a major subject in New Zealand to study because New Zealand feels this will be something that will be highly in demand going in the future. Uh, we have a lot of career exploration workshops, uh, we recently did a workshop, uh, for about 15 students who were taken to New Zealand and they were able to go behind the scenes on Wētā FX. They could touch the swords of Game of Thrones, they could touch the costumes of Stranger Things, etc. They were given a task of creating a showreel after 15 days, but during those 15 days, they used to spend 1 day in the industry under the mentorship of Academy Award winners, and on the second day, they were at the university to practically apply what they learned the day before. At the end of 15 days, we had some really amazing work that we saw, and we run such workshops across multiple areas including artificial intelligence, uh, sustainability, food science, veterinary science, etc. There have been a lot of subject-focused webinars and academic masterclasses at New Zealand universities, as well, which, uh, the Indian universities have taken a lot of advantage for. Uh, we do a UniBridge exercise every alternate year, where we take high school counselors, as well as, uh, the international office of multiple Indian universities to New Zealand. Uh, they stay on campus for a day and they, uh, actually live in the student accommodations, as well. The idea is for them to experience what a student feels when they are on campus, and these UniBridge exercises for us have come back with a lot of positive feedback where the universities from India mentioned that we felt very different about New Zealand when, you know, somebody came to us saying, "I want to study in New Zealand." But now when they have actually experienced New Zealand first hand, they could actually feel more confident about people being very friendly, people being, uh, very nice to international students. Uh, there has been no racism in the country, and how the universities offer opportunities to international students. Last and foremost, which we have been involved in the last 2 years, is a lot of partnership and collaboration work. India and New Zealand have just signed an FTA. We had the Indian Prime Minister visiting New Zealand, uh, after almost 40 years, and there's a lot of buzz around the India-New Zealand relationship, and we're doing a lot of work within the India university and the New Zealand universities, as well as a lot of exchange programs between the Indian high schools, as well as the New Zealand high schools. So, how can we work with the TOC community? Because the TOC community has a lot of independent education counselors, they have agents, we have high schools, as well as Indian university representatives in there. So, if I start with high schools, uh, we can always bring the New Zealand universities, uh, to do workshops and to interact with the students one-to-one, where they will get one, first hand information about scholarships, entry requirements, as well as the programs that they have to offer. We can also deliver a lot of destination awareness sessions, just to pitch New Zealand as a destination, so that the students have it on their list when they're looking at different destinations to study. Uh, we have cultural immersion programs and campus immersion programs, uh, the campus immersion program for New Zealand is not heard of till date. We are the only organization which will be launching a campus immersion program. Our first cohort is set to leave in February, next year, and we will be sending out information about the New Zealand campus immersion program very soon. For the Indian university representatives, because under the New Education Policy, there's a big focus by the government to work on collaborations between the Indian universities and foreign universities, uh, we are able to, uh, support those articulation pathways of 1+1, 2+2 for bachelors, joint programs, uh, student mobility initiatives, where the students from India can go to New Zealand for internships, as well as the inbound mobility of New Zealand students coming to India for internships, as well as industry exposure. We have academics already based in India, who come on a residence program. They are able to be on the Indian university campuses for 2 to 3 weeks to deliver block programs on behalf of the Indian university, and because they're staying on campus for 3 weeks, they become the brand ambassadors for their respective university. They are able to share a lot of, uh, knowledge in terms of academic delivery, the teaching methodologies, between the two countries, as well as more importantly, there's a lot of work happening within the research collaboration between India and New Zealand. New Zealand has just opened a India-New Zealand Research Center, and under that, we are doing a lot of research collaboration between India and the New Zealand universities. We have a lot of skill-based short-term study programs, where the students can go overseas to New Zealand for a period of 2 weeks to 6 months, uh, based on, you know, their, uh, paying capacity, and they are able to expose themselves to the industry, to real world projects, internships, as well as just getting a feel-good factor about what New Zealand has to offer, how the job market is, and, uh, how can New Zealand universities help the student in upskilling themselves. In terms of the independent education counselors, I have had the privilege of working with a lot of, uh, IECs from TOC, and I would love to work with more. Uh, we involve the independent education counselors in a lot of delegations, uh, that we take to New Zealand. In fact, a lot of incoming delegations from New Zealand universities, we do love to involve the IECs as part of the regular destination updates and policy briefings. We have, uh, given them the access to do a lot of student-facing workshops. They have a free hand to bring their students into our webinars, information sessions, as well as events that we do in those in their particular cities, as well. All our checklists, all the resources that we have shared across the board, are available to the IECs to use, which will always help them in, uh, processing those applications, in giving the right information as well. Finally, the education consultants and agencies, uh, again, we give a lot of, uh, destination support to the student, right from the counseling to university engagement for the agents, and we work in collaboration with our, uh, education consultant associates in supporting the New Zealand-focused events, seminars, as well as campaigns. So, if you are looking at adding New Zealand to your portfolio of different countries that you are offering, I strongly believe that partnerships do create possibilities, and for New Zealand, the greatest opportunity in India is not the awareness, it is actually collaboration. Together, uh, we can bring the universities, academics, parents, schools, all of them closer to New Zealand, and make New Zealand within the reach of every student. You've got my contact details over here, uh, you can even scan the QR code to put in your information, and we will always be happy to connect with you, as well. That will be all from me. Uh, over to you, Nikhil.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t030] [spk:1] Thank you, Shithij. It was perfectly timed. Uh, thanks everyone for joining in. Yes, people. Questions? Astero is having a lot of questions. I'm pretty sure. Shithij has been my guy.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t031] [spk:6] I have a question. Sorry, I have a question for Anisha, as well. Um, Anisha, there is a lot of profile building happening. Yes, there is. Do, how many like, what do you think is, I mean, I just feel like, is there really that much demand? And it's a very honest question, are students really looking to do all this, and, if yes, I mean, is it like the sliver of the pie is just very thin and everyone wants like a little bit of it, or is it like there's a lot of demand in this place for everyone, just from a market perspective? Because I feel like, um, the number of experiential learning and skill learning companies, uh, in in just TOC, we have about 40, by the way. Um, it's very interesting. And, is there enough demand?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t032] [Anisha] So, honestly, Bhakti, it's a very relevant question. I think a lot of people, uh, look at us in terms of Status Sky, it's, we're helping you actually start your own project or own business. So, it's not necessarily to do with your profile. We have students as young as 12 and 13 coming to us, and we always ask them a question that if this was not helping you with applications, would you do it or not? And I would say 80% of them would say that yes, we would do it. So, these guys are genuinely interested in starting something. You know, how earlier it was doctor, lawyer, engineer, now entrepreneur has become another thing that people aspire to do. And I think they want to start something of their own, they are interested, of course, it adds to your profile and it's something that helps you stand out, but that's not necessarily the reason that they want to start. So, I think that's a great thing to see that our kids, all Indian kids are, you know, anyways, we are smarter than most people, I think. Um, but, generally I feel like, you know, when you see them that they are, you know, just inquisitive, they want to start something, they have that curiosity, it goes beyond just profile building. So, I feel like that's the kind of people that we are working with, and, um, always happy to support them.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t033] [spk:6] So, Anisha is officially, Nikhil, said on record that Indians are the smartest people in the world. Let's, uh, that one's, uh, a quotable quote. Also, I have a question for Shithij. And Shithij, um, this one's got to do with your neighbor, uh, Australia. And, uh, you know, we've, we've been doing a lot of,
=== BLOCK 17 | label spk:6 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t033..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t033 (idx 32-32) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t031] [spk:6] I have a question. Sorry, I have a question for Anisha, as well. Um, Anisha, there is a lot of profile building happening. Yes, there is. Do, how many like, what do you think is, I mean, I just feel like, is there really that much demand? And it's a very honest question, are students really looking to do all this, and, if yes, I mean, is it like the sliver of the pie is just very thin and everyone wants like a little bit of it, or is it like there's a lot of demand in this place for everyone, just from a market perspective? Because I feel like, um, the number of experiential learning and skill learning companies, uh, in in just TOC, we have about 40, by the way. Um, it's very interesting. And, is there enough demand?
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t032] [Anisha] So, honestly, Bhakti, it's a very relevant question. I think a lot of people, uh, look at us in terms of Status Sky, it's, we're helping you actually start your own project or own business. So, it's not necessarily to do with your profile. We have students as young as 12 and 13 coming to us, and we always ask them a question that if this was not helping you with applications, would you do it or not? And I would say 80% of them would say that yes, we would do it. So, these guys are genuinely interested in starting something. You know, how earlier it was doctor, lawyer, engineer, now entrepreneur has become another thing that people aspire to do. And I think they want to start something of their own, they are interested, of course, it adds to your profile and it's something that helps you stand out, but that's not necessarily the reason that they want to start. So, I think that's a great thing to see that our kids, all Indian kids are, you know, anyways, we are smarter than most people, I think. Um, but, generally I feel like, you know, when you see them that they are, you know, just inquisitive, they want to start something, they have that curiosity, it goes beyond just profile building. So, I feel like that's the kind of people that we are working with, and, um, always happy to support them.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t033] [spk:6] So, Anisha is officially, Nikhil, said on record that Indians are the smartest people in the world. Let's, uh, that one's, uh, a quotable quote. Also, I have a question for Shithij. And Shithij, um, this one's got to do with your neighbor, uh, Australia. And, uh, you know, we've, we've been doing a lot of,
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t034] [spk:0] probing and a lot of uh surveys, and we've got a lot of insights into o- the Indian sentiment. Uh one of the things that I wanted to understand from you is, how much does how much do the recent policies of Australia, because of which it's been on a little bit of a downward or a
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t035] [spk:0] you know, not so great trend, how much is that helping New Zealand? Are students choosing New Zealand over Australia, or is that a completely separate set of students?
=== BLOCK 18 | label spk:0 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t034..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t036 (idx 33-35) | 3 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t032] [Anisha] So, honestly, Bhakti, it's a very relevant question. I think a lot of people, uh, look at us in terms of Status Sky, it's, we're helping you actually start your own project or own business. So, it's not necessarily to do with your profile. We have students as young as 12 and 13 coming to us, and we always ask them a question that if this was not helping you with applications, would you do it or not? And I would say 80% of them would say that yes, we would do it. So, these guys are genuinely interested in starting something. You know, how earlier it was doctor, lawyer, engineer, now entrepreneur has become another thing that people aspire to do. And I think they want to start something of their own, they are interested, of course, it adds to your profile and it's something that helps you stand out, but that's not necessarily the reason that they want to start. So, I think that's a great thing to see that our kids, all Indian kids are, you know, anyways, we are smarter than most people, I think. Um, but, generally I feel like, you know, when you see them that they are, you know, just inquisitive, they want to start something, they have that curiosity, it goes beyond just profile building. So, I feel like that's the kind of people that we are working with, and, um, always happy to support them.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t033] [spk:6] So, Anisha is officially, Nikhil, said on record that Indians are the smartest people in the world. Let's, uh, that one's, uh, a quotable quote. Also, I have a question for Shithij. And Shithij, um, this one's got to do with your neighbor, uh, Australia. And, uh, you know, we've, we've been doing a lot of,
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t034] [spk:0] probing and a lot of uh surveys, and we've got a lot of insights into o- the Indian sentiment. Uh one of the things that I wanted to understand from you is, how much does how much do the recent policies of Australia, because of which it's been on a little bit of a downward or a
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t035] [spk:0] you know, not so great trend, how much is that helping New Zealand? Are students choosing New Zealand over Australia, or is that a completely separate set of students?
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t036] [spk:0] You're on mute.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t037] [spk:1] Sorry. Uh I think uh New Zealand has always been the younger cousin of Australia. So, you know, students uh who are looking at the ease always look at Australia and New Zealand together. Uh students generally pick up Australia first
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t038] [spk:1] and currently, in the current situation, as soon as their visas are getting declined for Australia, they straight away apply for New Zealand. Mhm. Students who have the information upfront, uh a lot of students they look at New Zealand because getting the residence and citizenship of of New Zealand is fairly easier.
=== BLOCK 19 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t037..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t043 (idx 36-42) | 7 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t035] [spk:0] you know, not so great trend, how much is that helping New Zealand? Are students choosing New Zealand over Australia, or is that a completely separate set of students?
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t036] [spk:0] You're on mute.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t037] [spk:1] Sorry. Uh I think uh New Zealand has always been the younger cousin of Australia. So, you know, students uh who are looking at the ease always look at Australia and New Zealand together. Uh students generally pick up Australia first
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t038] [spk:1] and currently, in the current situation, as soon as their visas are getting declined for Australia, they straight away apply for New Zealand. Mhm. Students who have the information upfront, uh a lot of students they look at New Zealand because getting the residence and citizenship of of New Zealand is fairly easier.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t039] [spk:1] It's a very black and white approach towards getting a residence in New Zealand, and once they become a citizen, which is 5 years from their uh year of residence, they can easily move to Australia. They don't need a visa to study, work, or live in Australia. So, the New Zealand is always considered
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t040] [spk:1] as a stepping stone for a lot of countries because you've get got access to US, UK, Australia, Canada, the entire Europe, Southeast Asia, everywhere. The other thing is it's not only Australia, but the the the slowdown in US, UK, Canada, as well as Australia is contributing
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t041] [spk:1] to the demand for New Zealand. I can uh give you a factual number. In the last 6 months, the number of applications coming to New Zealand has grown by more than 350%. The universities, because I've just come back from New Zealand yesterday, and I met all the universities, they are struggling with the number of applications coming into the system,
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t042] [spk:1] uh because they were not prepared for it. But, at the same time, uh the government is very sure that they don't want to have a sudden influx of students. And I think that is one reason why I've always been stable with New Zealand because they don't look at students as a commodity. They are very sure that we want to ensure that, a, the eth- the ethnic balance is there within the country,
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t043] [spk:1] every student has uh the right experience given to them, and the policies are favorable to the student because, at the end of the day, the New Zealand uh economy depends upon international students. Yeah. Yeah, no. I mean, that's all for me. I wanted to ask these questions to the two of you. But, very interesting points, uh both of you.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t044] [spk:0] Um I'm going to pick up these conversations separately because um one of the things that we are trying to do with InFocus is, of course, bring you out to the community. But, we are also releasing a um limited edition PDF uh of all the companies that we are featuring
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t045] [spk:0] um, you know, in TOC and want to give them a larger platform uh, you know, on our official social media profiles, and and personally re-posting them. So, yeah, that's all for me. Nikhil, uh back to you to take any other question. Thank you, everyone.
=== BLOCK 20 | label spk:0 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t044..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t045 (idx 43-44) | 2 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t042] [spk:1] uh because they were not prepared for it. But, at the same time, uh the government is very sure that they don't want to have a sudden influx of students. And I think that is one reason why I've always been stable with New Zealand because they don't look at students as a commodity. They are very sure that we want to ensure that, a, the eth- the ethnic balance is there within the country,
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t043] [spk:1] every student has uh the right experience given to them, and the policies are favorable to the student because, at the end of the day, the New Zealand uh economy depends upon international students. Yeah. Yeah, no. I mean, that's all for me. I wanted to ask these questions to the two of you. But, very interesting points, uh both of you.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t044] [spk:0] Um I'm going to pick up these conversations separately because um one of the things that we are trying to do with InFocus is, of course, bring you out to the community. But, we are also releasing a um limited edition PDF uh of all the companies that we are featuring
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t045] [spk:0] um, you know, in TOC and want to give them a larger platform uh, you know, on our official social media profiles, and and personally re-posting them. So, yeah, that's all for me. Nikhil, uh back to you to take any other question. Thank you, everyone.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t046] [spk:2] So, yep. Sorry. Yep. So, I think, hello?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t047] [spk:0] Yeah, we can hear you. There is questions in the chat. Yeah, sure. I think there are few questions that uh I would want to get it answered, you know, in terms of the New Zealand when I look at it, you know,
=== BLOCK 21 | label spk:2 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t046..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t046 (idx 45-45) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t044] [spk:0] Um I'm going to pick up these conversations separately because um one of the things that we are trying to do with InFocus is, of course, bring you out to the community. But, we are also releasing a um limited edition PDF uh of all the companies that we are featuring
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t045] [spk:0] um, you know, in TOC and want to give them a larger platform uh, you know, on our official social media profiles, and and personally re-posting them. So, yeah, that's all for me. Nikhil, uh back to you to take any other question. Thank you, everyone.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t046] [spk:2] So, yep. Sorry. Yep. So, I think, hello?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t047] [spk:0] Yeah, we can hear you. There is questions in the chat. Yeah, sure. I think there are few questions that uh I would want to get it answered, you know, in terms of the New Zealand when I look at it, you know,
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t048] [spk:2] financing is one area that is always a question, right? I think the most complicated destination when you look at from a financing perspective is New Zealand, right? What's your advice for the parents and the counselors who are advising these parents, uh, you know, in terms of financing part?
=== BLOCK 22 | label spk:0 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t047..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t047 (idx 46-46) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t045] [spk:0] um, you know, in TOC and want to give them a larger platform uh, you know, on our official social media profiles, and and personally re-posting them. So, yeah, that's all for me. Nikhil, uh back to you to take any other question. Thank you, everyone.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t046] [spk:2] So, yep. Sorry. Yep. So, I think, hello?
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t047] [spk:0] Yeah, we can hear you. There is questions in the chat. Yeah, sure. I think there are few questions that uh I would want to get it answered, you know, in terms of the New Zealand when I look at it, you know,
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t048] [spk:2] financing is one area that is always a question, right? I think the most complicated destination when you look at from a financing perspective is New Zealand, right? What's your advice for the parents and the counselors who are advising these parents, uh, you know, in terms of financing part?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t049] [spk:1] Uh, Nikhil, New Zealand, uh like you mentioned, is one of the most complicated when it comes to preparing the visa application. Uh, but I can definitely tell you that when Immigration New Zealand assesses an application for New Zealand, they're mainly looking at only two things. The first is the finances, and the second is the intent to come back to India.
=== BLOCK 23 | label spk:2 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t048..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t048 (idx 47-47) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t046] [spk:2] So, yep. Sorry. Yep. So, I think, hello?
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t047] [spk:0] Yeah, we can hear you. There is questions in the chat. Yeah, sure. I think there are few questions that uh I would want to get it answered, you know, in terms of the New Zealand when I look at it, you know,
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t048] [spk:2] financing is one area that is always a question, right? I think the most complicated destination when you look at from a financing perspective is New Zealand, right? What's your advice for the parents and the counselors who are advising these parents, uh, you know, in terms of financing part?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t049] [spk:1] Uh, Nikhil, New Zealand, uh like you mentioned, is one of the most complicated when it comes to preparing the visa application. Uh, but I can definitely tell you that when Immigration New Zealand assesses an application for New Zealand, they're mainly looking at only two things. The first is the finances, and the second is the intent to come back to India.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t050] [spk:1] Uh, while in a lot of other countries, when you're building your SOPs, you mention that I will study and come back, in case of New Zealand, they want to hear from you that I I I will finish my studies, I will take my 3-year post-study work visa, gain the exposure in New Zealand, and then probably come back to India or look at some other opportunities elsewhere.
=== BLOCK 24 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t049..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t055 (idx 48-54) | 7 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t047] [spk:0] Yeah, we can hear you. There is questions in the chat. Yeah, sure. I think there are few questions that uh I would want to get it answered, you know, in terms of the New Zealand when I look at it, you know,
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t048] [spk:2] financing is one area that is always a question, right? I think the most complicated destination when you look at from a financing perspective is New Zealand, right? What's your advice for the parents and the counselors who are advising these parents, uh, you know, in terms of financing part?
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t049] [spk:1] Uh, Nikhil, New Zealand, uh like you mentioned, is one of the most complicated when it comes to preparing the visa application. Uh, but I can definitely tell you that when Immigration New Zealand assesses an application for New Zealand, they're mainly looking at only two things. The first is the finances, and the second is the intent to come back to India.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t050] [spk:1] Uh, while in a lot of other countries, when you're building your SOPs, you mention that I will study and come back, in case of New Zealand, they want to hear from you that I I I will finish my studies, I will take my 3-year post-study work visa, gain the exposure in New Zealand, and then probably come back to India or look at some other opportunities elsewhere.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t051] [spk:1] So, most of the applications today are also getting declined because the students are not mentioning the 3-year PSW and they end up taking the 3-year PSW. So, it is considered that you're, you know, you're not being transparent about your intents. Coming back to the finances, I think, with finances, the situation has been much better uh this year because they have been very open
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t052] [spk:1] and very transparent in terms of what is accepted and what is not accepted. Uh, we have been maintaining a very strong approval rates, Nikhil, uh like, if you talk about the July intake, the very recent intake, we had only one decline, and all of the other students got their visas approved. And I think one advice that I will give to all the
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t053] [spk:1] ICs, the counselors, etc. is, New Zealand does not give you any leeway in terms of documentation. If they've said that they need X, Y, Z, then they need X, Y, Z. And if you're giving them X, Y, Z, your visa will be approved. If you feel, key, you know, I if I skip one document, how much would an impact it will have on an application, the application will be declined.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t054] [spk:1] So, New Zealand does not require lot of paperwork, but they want the right paperwork to be in the application. And if the right paperwork is being submitted, the visa will get through. The second thing with Immigration New Zealand is that, uh there's a lot of profiling uh happening in uh within immigration. So, they are identifying the good ones from the bad ones.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t055] [spk:1] The good ones are being given uh preferred channel, uh unofficially, and the bad ones are being uh scrutinized more and more, and that is also affecting the visa chances of a student. Okay. So, there are a couple of questions in the chat. I'll just
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t056] [spk:2] pick some of them. Uh, one is definitely about post-study opportunities uh in New Zealand and what are the sectors which are better preferred, uh, you know, for a better post-study opportunity? Uh, so, in case of New Zealand, if a student is coming for a bachelor degree, they will be given a 3-year post-study
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t057] [spk:1] work visa guaranteed. There are no ifs and buts about it. They don't even need an employer to support them. It's a 3-year PSW given to every single student who is coming for a bachelors. Similarly, uh where the number of applications for New Zealand are increasing is actually the masters, uh because New Zealand has 1-year masters, just like the UK.
=== BLOCK 25 | label spk:2 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t056..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t056 (idx 55-55) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t054] [spk:1] So, New Zealand does not require lot of paperwork, but they want the right paperwork to be in the application. And if the right paperwork is being submitted, the visa will get through. The second thing with Immigration New Zealand is that, uh there's a lot of profiling uh happening in uh within immigration. So, they are identifying the good ones from the bad ones.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t055] [spk:1] The good ones are being given uh preferred channel, uh unofficially, and the bad ones are being uh scrutinized more and more, and that is also affecting the visa chances of a student. Okay. So, there are a couple of questions in the chat. I'll just
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t056] [spk:2] pick some of them. Uh, one is definitely about post-study opportunities uh in New Zealand and what are the sectors which are better preferred, uh, you know, for a better post-study opportunity? Uh, so, in case of New Zealand, if a student is coming for a bachelor degree, they will be given a 3-year post-study
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t057] [spk:1] work visa guaranteed. There are no ifs and buts about it. They don't even need an employer to support them. It's a 3-year PSW given to every single student who is coming for a bachelors. Similarly, uh where the number of applications for New Zealand are increasing is actually the masters, uh because New Zealand has 1-year masters, just like the UK.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t058] [spk:1] And if a student is doing a 1-year masters, they are still given a 3-year post-study work visa. So, and a 3-year post-study work visa is quite a lot of time for a student to find a job. Uh, based on different data that has come from the universities, on an average, it is taking 3 months, at the moment, for a student to find a job.
=== BLOCK 26 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t057..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t063 (idx 56-62) | 7 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t055] [spk:1] The good ones are being given uh preferred channel, uh unofficially, and the bad ones are being uh scrutinized more and more, and that is also affecting the visa chances of a student. Okay. So, there are a couple of questions in the chat. I'll just
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t056] [spk:2] pick some of them. Uh, one is definitely about post-study opportunities uh in New Zealand and what are the sectors which are better preferred, uh, you know, for a better post-study opportunity? Uh, so, in case of New Zealand, if a student is coming for a bachelor degree, they will be given a 3-year post-study
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t057] [spk:1] work visa guaranteed. There are no ifs and buts about it. They don't even need an employer to support them. It's a 3-year PSW given to every single student who is coming for a bachelors. Similarly, uh where the number of applications for New Zealand are increasing is actually the masters, uh because New Zealand has 1-year masters, just like the UK.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t058] [spk:1] And if a student is doing a 1-year masters, they are still given a 3-year post-study work visa. So, and a 3-year post-study work visa is quite a lot of time for a student to find a job. Uh, based on different data that has come from the universities, on an average, it is taking 3 months, at the moment, for a student to find a job.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t059] [spk:1] So, 90% of the students are getting jobs in the first 3 months, while 100% students are getting jobs in the first 12 months. So, majority of the students who are going to the top ranked universities are able to score jobs in the first 3 months itself. Some of the pressing areas in which we have lots of jobs available in New Zealand and we are facing a lot of
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t060] [spk:1] uh challenges in finding the right uh, you know, professionals or students to pick up those jobs. Uh, the number one will be construction and building sciences. So, interior architects, architects, uh civil engineers, quantity surveyors, construction managers, they are number one in New Zealand. Uh, number two will be information technology. So, anybody who is getting into cybersecurity, data science,
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t061] [spk:1] artificial intelligence, creative tech, game programming, software, etc. The third biggest industry will be engineering. There are 15 branches of engineering. The usual ones which are very, very high in demand. Uh, the fourth one will be applied sciences. So, this is biomedical science, food science, environmental science, sustainable science, etc.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t062] [spk:1] Uh, fifth will be accounting and finance. In fact, finance is one of the six areas in which graduates are earning more than $100,000 uh as soon as they're coming out of their universities. The next will be more professional courses like teachers, nurses, which are very, very high in demand. And then, obviously, the health sciences. We need doctors, physiotherapists,
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t063] [spk:1] uh pharmacists, psychologists, etc. So, these are pretty much the areas which are very, very high in demand. And the chances of getting a job in these areas are very, very high. Perfect. Anisha, I have a question to you. Probably,
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t064] [spk:2] uh, a very creative one. Uh, when kids are in, you know, from class 8th to 12th, usually like 12 to 16 years old, right? Yeah. You know, how do they, uh, you know, decide, or I'm not talking about their parents, but
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t065] [spk:2] how do the kids decide a career after the experience or pre-experience? You know, what is the impact of the, uh, you know, the activity that they do on their career decisions and how much that is impactful? You know, have you seen anything like that?
=== BLOCK 27 | label spk:2 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t064..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t065 (idx 63-64) | 2 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t062] [spk:1] Uh, fifth will be accounting and finance. In fact, finance is one of the six areas in which graduates are earning more than $100,000 uh as soon as they're coming out of their universities. The next will be more professional courses like teachers, nurses, which are very, very high in demand. And then, obviously, the health sciences. We need doctors, physiotherapists,
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t063] [spk:1] uh pharmacists, psychologists, etc. So, these are pretty much the areas which are very, very high in demand. And the chances of getting a job in these areas are very, very high. Perfect. Anisha, I have a question to you. Probably,
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t064] [spk:2] uh, a very creative one. Uh, when kids are in, you know, from class 8th to 12th, usually like 12 to 16 years old, right? Yeah. You know, how do they, uh, you know, decide, or I'm not talking about their parents, but
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t065] [spk:2] how do the kids decide a career after the experience or pre-experience? You know, what is the impact of the, uh, you know, the activity that they do on their career decisions and how much that is impactful? You know, have you seen anything like that?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t066] [spk:0] Yeah. So, I think when you're starting a business, right, the type of skills that you learn when you start your own venture or, you know, you become an entrepreneur, or whether it's small or big is tremendous. Right? You're not only learning about how to ideate, how to do research, how to actually look at what competition is doing but create prototypes, actually build a website. So, you're learning multiple
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t067] [spk:0] skills from tech to actually research to then actually learning how to market yourself, sales. So, many times in this journey, you might not become an entrepreneur yourself later. You might decide that this is not for me. But the kind of skills that you learn, um, will really help you also be that okay, maybe sales is not for me,
=== BLOCK 28 | label spk:0 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t066..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t069 (idx 65-68) | 4 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t064] [spk:2] uh, a very creative one. Uh, when kids are in, you know, from class 8th to 12th, usually like 12 to 16 years old, right? Yeah. You know, how do they, uh, you know, decide, or I'm not talking about their parents, but
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t065] [spk:2] how do the kids decide a career after the experience or pre-experience? You know, what is the impact of the, uh, you know, the activity that they do on their career decisions and how much that is impactful? You know, have you seen anything like that?
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t066] [spk:0] Yeah. So, I think when you're starting a business, right, the type of skills that you learn when you start your own venture or, you know, you become an entrepreneur, or whether it's small or big is tremendous. Right? You're not only learning about how to ideate, how to do research, how to actually look at what competition is doing but create prototypes, actually build a website. So, you're learning multiple
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t067] [spk:0] skills from tech to actually research to then actually learning how to market yourself, sales. So, many times in this journey, you might not become an entrepreneur yourself later. You might decide that this is not for me. But the kind of skills that you learn, um, will really help you also be that okay, maybe sales is not for me,
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t068] [spk:0] uh, maybe I really like marketing, or maybe this is something that a combination of two things will help. Or some kids are just like, this is it for me. Like, I really feel like starting my own thing would be great. Of course, I will get some experience later, and then I would start something of my own. But it really gives you a little bit of a touch and a feel of multiple different skill sets. And that's what I think an entrepreneur
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t069] [spk:0] will require and these are the, you know, future skills that everyone requires as well. So, helps in any career, honestly. So, whatever you do, it will help. Interesting. Perfect. Uh, you know,
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t070] [spk:2] age is always an issue when you look at international immigration, right? Um, I come from that lending perspective. Uh, but then is age is an issue for New Zealand? And then, um, adding to that, like what is the usual permissible age, uh, for undergraduate or masters or MBA degrees, when people
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t071] [spk:2] go to New Zealand from a visa standpoint? So, uh, for New Zealand, age is not a bar. Uh, we have had a principal of uh, one of the top schools from Delhi who was age 63 who got a successful visa for New Zealand. Uh, this year February, we had one, uh you know,
=== BLOCK 29 | label spk:2 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t070..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t071 (idx 69-70) | 2 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t068] [spk:0] uh, maybe I really like marketing, or maybe this is something that a combination of two things will help. Or some kids are just like, this is it for me. Like, I really feel like starting my own thing would be great. Of course, I will get some experience later, and then I would start something of my own. But it really gives you a little bit of a touch and a feel of multiple different skill sets. And that's what I think an entrepreneur
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t069] [spk:0] will require and these are the, you know, future skills that everyone requires as well. So, helps in any career, honestly. So, whatever you do, it will help. Interesting. Perfect. Uh, you know,
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t070] [spk:2] age is always an issue when you look at international immigration, right? Um, I come from that lending perspective. Uh, but then is age is an issue for New Zealand? And then, um, adding to that, like what is the usual permissible age, uh, for undergraduate or masters or MBA degrees, when people
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t071] [spk:2] go to New Zealand from a visa standpoint? So, uh, for New Zealand, age is not a bar. Uh, we have had a principal of uh, one of the top schools from Delhi who was age 63 who got a successful visa for New Zealand. Uh, this year February, we had one, uh you know,
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t072] [spk:1] individual who is from Dubai. Uh, he was 53 and he has got a visa for New Zealand as well. So, for New Zealand, age is not a criteria. Uh, what New Zealand actually looks at is a gap, and the definition of gap in case of New Zealand is very different to how the other countries perceive. Uh, while the other countries would look at an academic gap,
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t073] [spk:1] in case of New Zealand, it is a gap, and gap means that the student was sitting at home and doing nothing. Uh, so if a student has been involved uh in some kind of work, they have been, you know, trying to get into the government uh jobs and sitting for government exams, sometimes you've got uh females who have taken a break because they have had a child or after marriage, they have taken a sabbatical of a year or two,
=== BLOCK 30 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t072..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t075 (idx 71-74) | 4 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t070] [spk:2] age is always an issue when you look at international immigration, right? Um, I come from that lending perspective. Uh, but then is age is an issue for New Zealand? And then, um, adding to that, like what is the usual permissible age, uh, for undergraduate or masters or MBA degrees, when people
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t071] [spk:2] go to New Zealand from a visa standpoint? So, uh, for New Zealand, age is not a bar. Uh, we have had a principal of uh, one of the top schools from Delhi who was age 63 who got a successful visa for New Zealand. Uh, this year February, we had one, uh you know,
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t072] [spk:1] individual who is from Dubai. Uh, he was 53 and he has got a visa for New Zealand as well. So, for New Zealand, age is not a criteria. Uh, what New Zealand actually looks at is a gap, and the definition of gap in case of New Zealand is very different to how the other countries perceive. Uh, while the other countries would look at an academic gap,
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t073] [spk:1] in case of New Zealand, it is a gap, and gap means that the student was sitting at home and doing nothing. Uh, so if a student has been involved uh in some kind of work, they have been, you know, trying to get into the government uh jobs and sitting for government exams, sometimes you've got uh females who have taken a break because they have had a child or after marriage, they have taken a sabbatical of a year or two,
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t074] [spk:1] those things are widely accepted. Somebody who has got 30 years of work experience and they have proper documentation to prove and justify their 30 years of work experience, they can freely come and study in New Zealand. The only uh the only catch is that to apply for a permanent residence in New Zealand, uh you should not be more than 55 years when you're putting your application.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t075] [spk:1] So, I would strongly recommend if you're looking at coming to New Zealand, 50 should be your benchmark that, you know, you if you're below 50, then chances of settling down in New Zealand are much higher. However, if you're looking at coming to study and get some experience and get a work visa and be on a work visa for a longer period, there is no age bar in case of New Zealand.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t076] [spk:2] Okay. Perfect. And, uh, what about medicine? Because pharmaceutical and medicine, uh, from a degree standpoint, from a practicing standpoint, and from even coming back to India standpoint, or even migrating to another destination, how does a student perceive medicine in a in New Zealand that way, and then what
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t077] [spk:2] kind of practicing exposure that the person can get from a career stability? Also, most of the programs that are offered in the area of medicine, physiotherapy, and pharmacy, uh they are and nursing, uh they are all registration leading bachelors and masters degree. So, they get registered as a doctor in their respective field as soon as they finish a bachelors or masters.
=== BLOCK 31 | label spk:2 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t076..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t077 (idx 75-76) | 2 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t074] [spk:1] those things are widely accepted. Somebody who has got 30 years of work experience and they have proper documentation to prove and justify their 30 years of work experience, they can freely come and study in New Zealand. The only uh the only catch is that to apply for a permanent residence in New Zealand, uh you should not be more than 55 years when you're putting your application.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t075] [spk:1] So, I would strongly recommend if you're looking at coming to New Zealand, 50 should be your benchmark that, you know, you if you're below 50, then chances of settling down in New Zealand are much higher. However, if you're looking at coming to study and get some experience and get a work visa and be on a work visa for a longer period, there is no age bar in case of New Zealand.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t076] [spk:2] Okay. Perfect. And, uh, what about medicine? Because pharmaceutical and medicine, uh, from a degree standpoint, from a practicing standpoint, and from even coming back to India standpoint, or even migrating to another destination, how does a student perceive medicine in a in New Zealand that way, and then what
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t077] [spk:2] kind of practicing exposure that the person can get from a career stability? Also, most of the programs that are offered in the area of medicine, physiotherapy, and pharmacy, uh they are and nursing, uh they are all registration leading bachelors and masters degree. So, they get registered as a doctor in their respective field as soon as they finish a bachelors or masters.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t078] [spk:1] This includes dentists as well. Uh, they don't have to sit for an exam once they finish their bachelors or masters in New Zealand to be registered within the New Zealand Medical Board. The doctors who are registered in New Zealand are free to practice in Australia. Uh, they don't need to sit for another exam in Australia to practice. So, all the registrations that are coming from New Zealand are valid in Australia.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t079] [spk:1] However, if they do decide to come back to India, they will have to sit for the local registration exam to be registered in India to practice as well. To get an admission into New Zealand, uh especially for BDS and MBBS, there are no entrance examinations. Uh, we have only two medical schools in New Zealand, one is University of Auckland and the other is University of Otago.
=== BLOCK 32 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t078..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t084 (idx 77-83) | 7 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t076] [spk:2] Okay. Perfect. And, uh, what about medicine? Because pharmaceutical and medicine, uh, from a degree standpoint, from a practicing standpoint, and from even coming back to India standpoint, or even migrating to another destination, how does a student perceive medicine in a in New Zealand that way, and then what
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t077] [spk:2] kind of practicing exposure that the person can get from a career stability? Also, most of the programs that are offered in the area of medicine, physiotherapy, and pharmacy, uh they are and nursing, uh they are all registration leading bachelors and masters degree. So, they get registered as a doctor in their respective field as soon as they finish a bachelors or masters.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t078] [spk:1] This includes dentists as well. Uh, they don't have to sit for an exam once they finish their bachelors or masters in New Zealand to be registered within the New Zealand Medical Board. The doctors who are registered in New Zealand are free to practice in Australia. Uh, they don't need to sit for another exam in Australia to practice. So, all the registrations that are coming from New Zealand are valid in Australia.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t079] [spk:1] However, if they do decide to come back to India, they will have to sit for the local registration exam to be registered in India to practice as well. To get an admission into New Zealand, uh especially for BDS and MBBS, there are no entrance examinations. Uh, we have only two medical schools in New Zealand, one is University of Auckland and the other is University of Otago.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t080] [spk:1] Uh, both the medical schools rank in the top 100 medical schools of the world. Uh, to get an admission into these medical schools, the student have to apply for a Bachelors of Health Science, year 1. Uh, while they're studying that Bachelors of Health Science, they have to sit for the UCAT exam. They have to uh go through multiple mini interviews which are focused on the interpersonal skills,
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t081] [spk:1] and they need to have minimum A grades in their uh semester 1 and semester 2. Once they have these three conditions fulfilled, they are transferred to MBBS year 1. If they do not meet one of these requirements, then they can continue their Bachelors of Health Science for a non-clinical program.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t082] [spk:1] Similarly, if a student is already an MBBS in India, uh or a BDS in India, or a physiotherapist in India, they need to have minimum 2 to 3 years of experience, and they will be able to get into an advanced standing for a bachelor degree, which is basically they get uh credit for first 2 years. They will have to study for 3 years in New Zealand
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t083] [spk:1] to be registered as a doctor in their respective field. So, that and if you're if you're a pharmacist from uh India, then you have to simply do a 2-year masters degree in clinical pharmacy in New Zealand. And if you're a physiotherapist in India, you have to do a 2-year Masters of Physiotherapy Practice in New Zealand, which includes the first year of study and the second year of, you know, minimum
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t084] [spk:1] uh exposure to the industry which is looked after by the uh New Zealand university itself. Perfect. Thank you. Uh, still the audience is there. So, any further questions, guys?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t085] [spk:2] Any further questions, everyone.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t086] [spk:1] Got a question over here, Nikhil, regarding the entry criteria for the percentage. So, if you're looking at a bachelors or a masters degree in New Zealand, the admission is purely on the basis of the academic scores and the English proficiency. So, in case of New Zealand, we don't need any entrance examinations or any competitive exams like GRE, GMAT, SAT.
=== BLOCK 33 | label spk:2 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t085..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t085 (idx 84-84) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t083] [spk:1] to be registered as a doctor in their respective field. So, that and if you're if you're a pharmacist from uh India, then you have to simply do a 2-year masters degree in clinical pharmacy in New Zealand. And if you're a physiotherapist in India, you have to do a 2-year Masters of Physiotherapy Practice in New Zealand, which includes the first year of study and the second year of, you know, minimum
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t084] [spk:1] uh exposure to the industry which is looked after by the uh New Zealand university itself. Perfect. Thank you. Uh, still the audience is there. So, any further questions, guys?
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t085] [spk:2] Any further questions, everyone.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t086] [spk:1] Got a question over here, Nikhil, regarding the entry criteria for the percentage. So, if you're looking at a bachelors or a masters degree in New Zealand, the admission is purely on the basis of the academic scores and the English proficiency. So, in case of New Zealand, we don't need any entrance examinations or any competitive exams like GRE, GMAT, SAT.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t087] [spk:1] The admission is purely on the basis of academics and the English proficiency. If you're looking at a bachelor degree and you're looking at the eight universities ranking in the top 500, then, uh the bar is, except for, Hi, Kshitij. Hi. Sorry. Uh, so, the question was specific that you mentioned for the MBBS program. I was very keen on that. So, for that, to get into that bachelors program, what is I know I should have typed the MBBS part, but what is the percentage requirement for that? I was wanting to know.
=== BLOCK 34 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t086..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t087 (idx 85-86) | 2 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t084] [spk:1] uh exposure to the industry which is looked after by the uh New Zealand university itself. Perfect. Thank you. Uh, still the audience is there. So, any further questions, guys?
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t085] [spk:2] Any further questions, everyone.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t086] [spk:1] Got a question over here, Nikhil, regarding the entry criteria for the percentage. So, if you're looking at a bachelors or a masters degree in New Zealand, the admission is purely on the basis of the academic scores and the English proficiency. So, in case of New Zealand, we don't need any entrance examinations or any competitive exams like GRE, GMAT, SAT.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t087] [spk:1] The admission is purely on the basis of academics and the English proficiency. If you're looking at a bachelor degree and you're looking at the eight universities ranking in the top 500, then, uh the bar is, except for, Hi, Kshitij. Hi. Sorry. Uh, so, the question was specific that you mentioned for the MBBS program. I was very keen on that. So, for that, to get into that bachelors program, what is I know I should have typed the MBBS part, but what is the percentage requirement for that? I was wanting to know.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t088] [spk:3] So, uh, for the bachelor degree, it doesn't matter if you're coming for a medicine program or engineering or uh business. The entry requirement is the same for all the universities for all the programs. For University of Auckland, the student needs to have minimum 80% uh in best of four subjects, class 12th, and for all the other seven universities, they need to have a minimum 75% in the best of four subjects. That's the only academic entry requirement
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t089] [spk:1] to get into any of those eight universities. There is no specific requirement for medicine. Okay, thanks. Perfect. No further questions.
=== BLOCK 35 | label spk:3 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t088..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t088 (idx 87-87) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t086] [spk:1] Got a question over here, Nikhil, regarding the entry criteria for the percentage. So, if you're looking at a bachelors or a masters degree in New Zealand, the admission is purely on the basis of the academic scores and the English proficiency. So, in case of New Zealand, we don't need any entrance examinations or any competitive exams like GRE, GMAT, SAT.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t087] [spk:1] The admission is purely on the basis of academics and the English proficiency. If you're looking at a bachelor degree and you're looking at the eight universities ranking in the top 500, then, uh the bar is, except for, Hi, Kshitij. Hi. Sorry. Uh, so, the question was specific that you mentioned for the MBBS program. I was very keen on that. So, for that, to get into that bachelors program, what is I know I should have typed the MBBS part, but what is the percentage requirement for that? I was wanting to know.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t088] [spk:3] So, uh, for the bachelor degree, it doesn't matter if you're coming for a medicine program or engineering or uh business. The entry requirement is the same for all the universities for all the programs. For University of Auckland, the student needs to have minimum 80% uh in best of four subjects, class 12th, and for all the other seven universities, they need to have a minimum 75% in the best of four subjects. That's the only academic entry requirement
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t089] [spk:1] to get into any of those eight universities. There is no specific requirement for medicine. Okay, thanks. Perfect. No further questions.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t090] [spk:4] Can I just ask one question? Do they have a quota for international students for medicine? Uh, they do, uh it's highly competitive. They have uh eight seats at University of Auckland and 15 seats at University of Otago. Uh, we have our third medical school opening in 2027 or 2028, I have to check, but there is a third medical school which is already approved.
=== BLOCK 36 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t089..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t089 (idx 88-88) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t087] [spk:1] The admission is purely on the basis of academics and the English proficiency. If you're looking at a bachelor degree and you're looking at the eight universities ranking in the top 500, then, uh the bar is, except for, Hi, Kshitij. Hi. Sorry. Uh, so, the question was specific that you mentioned for the MBBS program. I was very keen on that. So, for that, to get into that bachelors program, what is I know I should have typed the MBBS part, but what is the percentage requirement for that? I was wanting to know.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t088] [spk:3] So, uh, for the bachelor degree, it doesn't matter if you're coming for a medicine program or engineering or uh business. The entry requirement is the same for all the universities for all the programs. For University of Auckland, the student needs to have minimum 80% uh in best of four subjects, class 12th, and for all the other seven universities, they need to have a minimum 75% in the best of four subjects. That's the only academic entry requirement
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t089] [spk:1] to get into any of those eight universities. There is no specific requirement for medicine. Okay, thanks. Perfect. No further questions.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t090] [spk:4] Can I just ask one question? Do they have a quota for international students for medicine? Uh, they do, uh it's highly competitive. They have uh eight seats at University of Auckland and 15 seats at University of Otago. Uh, we have our third medical school opening in 2027 or 2028, I have to check, but there is a third medical school which is already approved.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t091] [spk:1] Uh, the third medical school will be uh primarily focused towards international students.
=== BLOCK 37 | label spk:4 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t090..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t090 (idx 89-89) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t088] [spk:3] So, uh, for the bachelor degree, it doesn't matter if you're coming for a medicine program or engineering or uh business. The entry requirement is the same for all the universities for all the programs. For University of Auckland, the student needs to have minimum 80% uh in best of four subjects, class 12th, and for all the other seven universities, they need to have a minimum 75% in the best of four subjects. That's the only academic entry requirement
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t089] [spk:1] to get into any of those eight universities. There is no specific requirement for medicine. Okay, thanks. Perfect. No further questions.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t090] [spk:4] Can I just ask one question? Do they have a quota for international students for medicine? Uh, they do, uh it's highly competitive. They have uh eight seats at University of Auckland and 15 seats at University of Otago. Uh, we have our third medical school opening in 2027 or 2028, I have to check, but there is a third medical school which is already approved.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t091] [spk:1] Uh, the third medical school will be uh primarily focused towards international students.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t092] [spk:2] Okay, gentlemen, uh counselors, any further questions?
=== BLOCK 38 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t091..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t091 (idx 90-90) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t089] [spk:1] to get into any of those eight universities. There is no specific requirement for medicine. Okay, thanks. Perfect. No further questions.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t090] [spk:4] Can I just ask one question? Do they have a quota for international students for medicine? Uh, they do, uh it's highly competitive. They have uh eight seats at University of Auckland and 15 seats at University of Otago. Uh, we have our third medical school opening in 2027 or 2028, I have to check, but there is a third medical school which is already approved.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t091] [spk:1] Uh, the third medical school will be uh primarily focused towards international students.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t092] [spk:2] Okay, gentlemen, uh counselors, any further questions?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t093] [spk:1] Uh, Abha, the minimum IB score required is 24 to 26 points uh for a bachelor degree. Yep.
=== BLOCK 39 | label spk:2 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t092..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t092 (idx 91-91) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t090] [spk:4] Can I just ask one question? Do they have a quota for international students for medicine? Uh, they do, uh it's highly competitive. They have uh eight seats at University of Auckland and 15 seats at University of Otago. Uh, we have our third medical school opening in 2027 or 2028, I have to check, but there is a third medical school which is already approved.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t091] [spk:1] Uh, the third medical school will be uh primarily focused towards international students.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t092] [spk:2] Okay, gentlemen, uh counselors, any further questions?
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t093] [spk:1] Uh, Abha, the minimum IB score required is 24 to 26 points uh for a bachelor degree. Yep.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t094] [spk:2] Perfect. Thank you, Kshitij. Thanks, Anisha, and uh just to give a quick insight for others who think InFocus is not for everyone or anything, is any doubts. InFocus is for everyone, so you just got to apply for that, and it happens every month. We pick up two uh credible applicants
=== BLOCK 40 | label spk:1 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t093..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t093 (idx 92-92) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t091] [spk:1] Uh, the third medical school will be uh primarily focused towards international students.
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t092] [spk:2] Okay, gentlemen, uh counselors, any further questions?
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t093] [spk:1] Uh, Abha, the minimum IB score required is 24 to 26 points uh for a bachelor degree. Yep.
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t094] [spk:2] Perfect. Thank you, Kshitij. Thanks, Anisha, and uh just to give a quick insight for others who think InFocus is not for everyone or anything, is any doubts. InFocus is for everyone, so you just got to apply for that, and it happens every month. We pick up two uh credible applicants
  (ctx+1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t095] [spk:2] who are, you know, applying for InFocus and wants to showcase uh to the larger community what they do. And uh InFocus sessions are all recorded and shared on the resource drive with their brochures. So, you would be shared all of these uh and you can directly get in touch with Kshitij and Anisha on the group, and directly to them, whichever way you're comfortable.
=== BLOCK 41 | label spk:2 | turns 2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t094..2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t096 (idx 93-95) | 3 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t092] [spk:2] Okay, gentlemen, uh counselors, any further questions?
  (ctx-1) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t093] [spk:1] Uh, Abha, the minimum IB score required is 24 to 26 points uh for a bachelor degree. Yep.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t094] [spk:2] Perfect. Thank you, Kshitij. Thanks, Anisha, and uh just to give a quick insight for others who think InFocus is not for everyone or anything, is any doubts. InFocus is for everyone, so you just got to apply for that, and it happens every month. We pick up two uh credible applicants
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t095] [spk:2] who are, you know, applying for InFocus and wants to showcase uh to the larger community what they do. And uh InFocus sessions are all recorded and shared on the resource drive with their brochures. So, you would be shared all of these uh and you can directly get in touch with Kshitij and Anisha on the group, and directly to them, whichever way you're comfortable.
  (BLOCK) [2026-07-30-in-focus-3-t096] [spk:2] Uh, but yes, that's uh wraps up the session. Thank you so much. Thank you, everyone, for listening to us patiently. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
