# 2026-08-27-in-focus-4 — 51 turns, 3 positional, 3 blocks
=== BLOCK 1 | label spk:0 | turns 2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t002..2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t002 (idx 1-1) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t001] [Devesh] Perfect, perfect.
  (BLOCK) [2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t002] [spk:0] But I'm so excited about this one, Priyambada and Parthosh, really. Very excited.
  (ctx+1) [2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t003] [Priyambada] Thank you, Bhakti.
  (ctx+1) [2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t004] [spk:0] Yeah. Really looking forward to very distinct companies and you know, In Focus itself is a very interesting concept. We're really, please tell us what more we can do once you know, we finish the session. Of course, it will be distributed. I think your brochures are also going to be available. But let us know if there's anything else that you need from TOC. We'd love to take your work out to the wider world. But, yeah, I think, Devesh, let's go. It's 6:00. Let's start.
=== BLOCK 2 | label spk:0 | turns 2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t004..2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t004 (idx 3-3) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t002] [spk:0] But I'm so excited about this one, Priyambada and Parthosh, really. Very excited.
  (ctx-1) [2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t003] [Priyambada] Thank you, Bhakti.
  (BLOCK) [2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t004] [spk:0] Yeah. Really looking forward to very distinct companies and you know, In Focus itself is a very interesting concept. We're really, please tell us what more we can do once you know, we finish the session. Of course, it will be distributed. I think your brochures are also going to be available. But let us know if there's anything else that you need from TOC. We'd love to take your work out to the wider world. But, yeah, I think, Devesh, let's go. It's 6:00. Let's start.
  (ctx+1) [2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t005] [Devesh] Perfect, perfect, super. Welcome everyone. Good evening. Welcome to the third In Focus in a monthly series of sessions. The In Focus series was started in June where we had two speakers, two presenters talk about their companies, their organizations, share about the wonderful work that they are doing. I was one of the presenters last month. And now, we have two exceptional speakers coming in and talk about their companies. It's a great opportunity to learn about what's happening in the education space, what's happening. Today, Priyambada is going to talk about her organization, Education and You. She has been doing some wonderful work. I had an opportunity of meeting Priyambada, I think, around 2018 or 2019 and we have been working together since then. And I know she's exceptionally passionate about the work that she does. Education and You was founded in 2008. So, it's been a 16-year journey, Priya. Over to you, we look forward to learning about Education and You. Yeah.
  (ctx+1) [2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t006] [Priyambada] Thank you, Devesh. And before I start, yes, Devesh is one of the key people for me to be in TOC. The first time I met him and he said, "How are you not a part of TOC?" And I think over lunch, I was a member of TOC. So, thank you, Devesh. Yes, it's been a wonderful journey for me to be in the education industry and among you people because the TOC community has been fantastic. Education and You started, I started this back, just one second, in the year 2014. Before that, I was working. And my purpose to start Education and You was because I wanted to bring back to the plate to students what they need rather than what we want to give them. So, I'm going to take you down the test prep side of Education and You where we provide a very customized and niche prep part where we are involved with each child's journey. So, as I said, 12 years, one priority, it's always been students. So, we've been working around a lot of data, we keep improvising ourselves on how, what has to be done. Study plans are changed. We look up to understanding what is changing every time, in every exam that's happening. Like, for example, this Monday, the GRE exam changed its difficulty level in the quant section, which was reported to us. And immediately, we went back to following it up with a lot of other tutors back in Middle East and all and have been able to understand that what has happened. And it's already been implemented in, with all the students who are currently studying GRE. So, that is how fast we work around. And yes, AI has always been helpful in the coming days because it helps us understand how and what has to be worked in manner, making life much easier for us. So, these are some facts about, we've taught about 6,000 plus students and we have taught different students across different domains like SAT, GRE, GMAT. The Indian aptitude test, I started back in 2018 in a very small manner, but we've grown over time. When I say Indian UG entrance exams, is we cover entrance exam preps for most of the exams. So, this is what are the offerings we have. So, the regular SAT, GRE, GMAT, IELTS, TOEFL, PTE. Along with that, we also have some specialized tests for the IE Madrid undergrads, the Bocconi undergrads, the SMU PG test, the ISB Bat, which is required. And obviously, the Indian UG entrance exams, I think we cover practically all of it. And we do not have one single study plan for a student. Each student has a separate study plan. What is depending on what they come from, what is the background in terms of maths, no maths, what is the weak area, everything is analyzed and then we work around it. Now, analysis, when I talk about, does not really mean just talking on a phone call and having an analysis because that's not going to help. A lot of parents come and tell me, "Oh, I can help you with their school results. I can help you with their board results." Well, that's not going to help me because we forget that the exams require, to not only require the syllabus knowledge or curriculum knowledge, they require skills, they require confidence, they require time management, which only comes when they are able to do that paper of an exam. So, we do a diagnostic first, always. So, all exams, be it the very basic IELTS or be it any of the other exams, we try to run a diagnostic test for them, which helps us analyze a student's detailed understanding, gaps, strength, weaknesses, which teacher to map because we have to understand from the child also that you know, there's a foundational error, a strategical error, what is required before we are able to make a personalized plan. Also, it gives the student an understanding of what are they mentally coming to face. Because you know, some of these exams are really overwhelming, at times intimidating, and time-consuming. So, if a child comes without thinking of the amount of time they have to spend, just hearing peers or looking at Instagram, it's not going to help. This is like a reality check. And it's also a reality check to a lot of parents because they come and say, "My child has scored a 99 in maths in class 10, so they would easily score, for example, in an SAT, maybe, you know, a 760 or a 770 maths with a walk-through." No. When they actually take a diagnostic test and they land at 660, that is when the reality check sets in. So, six things that we essentially and exclusively do at Education and You is we have a student-teacher tracker. So, call me a little old school, a little traditional. So, remember we all had a teacher's diary back in school, which was always on the desk, and the teacher wrote what she taught us in class and what she gave us as homework because she had to report to the principal? And I think that is a very interesting way of having accountability of what's happening in a class when I cannot attend every class or I cannot be present everywhere. So that when I am attending a PTM, I know what we are talking on. I don't have to have a separate meeting with the teacher to take an update, and a separate teacher with the student to take an update and then correlate. So, we have this Excel sheet where we have all the, the entire study plan is shared at the start of the program. And every, at the end of every class, the teacher updates what has been done in the class and what is the homework provided. And this Excel sheet or a tracker is viewed by student, parent, and even the counselor. They all have access to it, to viewing it. This also has a, another sheet where we talk about curated practice and mocks. And we keep updating all mock scores taken by student to see the progress of performance. Drips and goods. And we see the difference of the timing, as in the first mock to the second mock, what was the duration, as in you know, the time gaps, which helps. Second is the resource pool. Um, I have no shame in saying that none of our resources are in-house built. We do pick up a lot of resources from across the table. We do not white label them. We very proudly say that we are using a Princeton resource or a Kaplan resource or a College Board resource because we know that they are authenticated resources and they will help the students rather than trying to create our own. But yes, there's a huge pool that it's very, very, it's very difficult for most students to finish it in an entire tenure till the first attempt. Uh, having at least fortnightly PTMs where I am mandatorily available, so that we can have a discussion with the parent to update them on what's happening. The student tells us if they are having a problem. The teachers are there to share what is the difficulty faced. And we also are okay with the counselors joining in for this session because they have to also be in sync in knowing that where is the trigger moving. Is it going up-sale or down-sale? And yes, all our classes are one-on-one live classes. We only do curated group classes for certain counselors who come back and tell us that, "We want our, six of our students, please create a group class." We will do it. Otherwise, everything that we have on the table is one-on-one. And they are live, we do not provide recorded sessions. Very basic reason is kids become very, very laid-back when they hear that it's a recorded, that they'll get a session, they will take the notes later, they'll use an AI bot to you know, just summarize and you know, go through it. No. It has to be a live interactive session where there are questions asked, solved, done, everything. And the sixth thing that we provide them is a mithai ka dabba, which is basically a flashcard box of uh, words. And this is across for all exams. Uh, be it a GRE, a SAT, or be it even for Indian aptitude. Uh, vocabulary is the base essence for everybody to understand uh, English. And I think vocabulary goes a little way ahead. Vocabulary also goes ahead when we talk about, when they have to draft essays, when they have to work on research papers. They need essentially a good pool of words. So, this flashcard box comes with about 1500 plus words. Now, the reason I call this a mithai ka dabba is most people don't want to open it because they feel that it's too rich and too heavy. So, to make it more easy for them, we made sure that they open it because there are, each box comes with a curated QR code and a, what do you say, like a ticket number, which is your access to your quizzes and your games available online, which nobody has access to. And, so this is what we do exclusively. Now, this is a basically a seven-step journey from where you start from an assessment to starting your class. So, this is where I am practically available at every step, from you taking a, from a student taking a diagnostic test, to helping them understand, trying to align it, scheduling demos, slot bookings, and then we start the live classes. Till then, everything, demo is a mandatory for all exams at our place. A 30-minute demo has to be done. Once in a while, some demos can be maybe 10 minutes lesser or maybe 10 minutes more, depending on case-to-case. So, when I work with, so I work with a lot of associate partners and some of them are at TOC. Or I would say many of them are at TOC and I have met some of them recently at the TOC soirée. I have been working with them not from today, but from really long. And I really share a very, very good relation. And the reason is because we all work as one team. Why? Because there is shared visibility, there's nothing hidden, it's all transparent. There are regular checks. So, I am very upfront about sharing a feedback about a student if I feel there is some downfall or there's a stubbornness rather than you know, it going off the track. Before it's too late, it's better to raise an alarm. And I do that on a personal chat with the relevant counselor or an associate. The associate is added on the WhatsApp group, with the warning that you might receive 50 messages on that group every day. So, please be very careful. And very last and very important. The roles and the definitions are very, very clearly defined. No stepping off boundaries. Your student remains your student. You give that student to me for teaching purpose, I teach, and I hand it over back to you. No hankies and bankies. Any child comes to me asking for anything additional is always routed back to you. And you are informed again by me on a WhatsApp that this was a question raised and I've directed it towards you, please take care. Um, again, as I said, one shared account, so these are all the plays things that we just spoke about, the four people and our goal is one. So, the student-teacher tracker is what is very important for us to keep always a tab to knowing what's happening. Actions speak louder. Some of our non-negotiables that we have with our students, which we result have helped in our results and we always request each of our associate that please make sure that you push this to your students is that they have to have a camera. They cannot be camera shy. They are not being judged, they don't have a group, so it's not going to be any disadvantage. It's not recorded that you know, parents fear that you know, anything can be misused later. But having a camera on helps the teacher and the student both interact better. And we've all learned this post COVID that, you know, how important is it to have a face to a voice rather than just a voice. The one WhatsApp group, I have been very, very strict about it that no communication on any private chats with any faculties or anything. Everything on the group, let's be transparent, there's nothing to hide. You don't like it, I don't like it, let's put it up there. And last is that everything is documented also so that later there are no mishaps. We do obviously, we all understand being in the industry that there are good critics and there are bad critics also. We've all faced it. So, during bad critics, having all of it in the same place in a transparent and a documented manner is adds to all of our advantage. Rather than trying to say that this was half verbal and half wasn't this. So, there are a lot of times when we have conversations with parents verbally. So, right after the call, I put it as a minutes to the call on the group again. This is how my team looks. So, we have faculties sitting across the globe. So, we have a lot of faculties who, and most of these faculties have been a part of the industry for at least two decades, if not more. Our most senior faculty is both Usha Ma'am and Amit Sir. They've been in the, they've been here for three decades, if I'm not wrong. Usha Ma'am is the senior-most faculty, comes with oodles of amount of experience. And the best part is that we all are able to work hand-in-hand. So, some of our faculties are also abroad, they're in the US, so they work in different time zones, whereas others work. So, we all go hand-in-hand. So, that's the reason it's easy for us to map students according to their timings available and all with the different faculties. And I'm always the chief mentor, I would say, the mother hen sitting on top of everybody. So, these are some of our reviews from our students. Few of you may be able to recognize few names, if they are your students or parents. But these are, and you can read more about us on Google. So, these are all taken from Google. So, I encourage students to please put their feedback directly on a Google rather than, you know, taking them anywhere else because it's much easier. So, um, yes, we've had students who've come in last minute also with three weeks as to people who've come for two weeks, we do two months. There have been crazy cases, but it's always a joy to work with them. It's always a joy to push, push and push, and, you know, work odd hours, odd number of hours with the classes going from maybe a minimum of one hour to a maximum of three hours because they have less time in hand. So, and my philosophy has always been trust and relationship building. It's taken me 16 years in this industry to have built each rel- take each step to build that relation with most of you. Uh, as I said, at the beginning of the call, Devesh, the first meeting and I was like we back then, since then I think there's been no turning around. I can message him anytime. And that's because the relation has been built step-by-step and you know, he introduced me to this huge community and I'm so blessed that I have made so many such relations. I am looking forward to building more. So, I'm always just a WhatsApp away. I will never say I'm a call away. I'm always a WhatsApp away because I'm very bad at taking calls. So, there is no one size, one size fit model for any student or any associate counselor. Uh, what you want, tell me, if I can do it, I come back to you. But yes, our goal is always going to be a student. So, we'll always work. And yes, we we can take this out on in details later to discuss about what kind of pricings are there, what are the referrals and all of that, which can be discussed in more details with each of you at different levels. Thank you.
=== BLOCK 3 | label spk:4 | turns 2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t027..2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t027 (idx 26-26) | 1 turn(s)
  (ctx-1) [2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t025] [Janvi] They could choose between the thesis or the project, capstone.
  (ctx-1) [2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t026] [Parthosh] Exactly, exactly. Thank you. Yeah. Right. I'll just wait for one more, there's a lot on the slide actually, but I'll wait for one more, um, if anyone has one more to point out.
  (BLOCK) [2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t027] [spk:4] Yeah, I think the first one, complete 13 eligible courses for a minimum of 63 units, including, and then the list starts, I think, 13 eligible courses, yeah.
  (ctx+1) [2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t028] [Devesh] 13 eligible courses, yeah.
  (ctx+1) [2026-08-27-in-focus-4-t029] [Parthosh] That's right. And so, for example, the first course, which is Sources and Methods, is a specific course that every history student has to do. Same with the second one, but, um, and same with the third one. But the fourth one is two 200-level colloquia. So, you can choose any two 100-level colloquia. Um, right? I mean, you have to make these choices every day as an undergraduate student, um, and you're not required to make choices as a high schooler. So, how are you going to prove to a college that you're going to be able to take advantage of the amount of freedom that you're given in college, right? It's a lot easier to do something that's told to you, it's very difficult to take a decision for yourself. So, these are just some of the elements that I've highlighted where, um, and we we already spoke about couple of these, where the student actually has to make a choice. Um, now, how many options do they have? Okay, so this is the total number of courses that Stanford is offering in history in spring of one year. I mean, the it's 10 pages of courses, right? And each page has about like seven courses. So, there's some 70-80 options that you have to choose from and it's not easy because you have to do this every single term, right? Um, so so, that's the second area. So, the first area is that students don't read properly because they're not trained to, read these types of academic texts, and the second is that they're not, you know, required to make a lot of choices regarding their education. But suddenly, when you go to college, you have to decide everything for yourself. And students get lost because of this and then they start drifting all over the place. Um, now, it's as I said, you know, colleges obviously want students who are going to succeed in college, so they also try to test that in the application process, as we all know. And these are the places in which I think the specific skills that I mentioned are tested out the most. So, how good is a student's "Why Major" essay, right? Like, do they know what they're applying for, what, you know, they're saying they're not trying to apply for and within what they are applying for, what specifically they're interested in and things like that? Right? Do they have experience reading, um, the sort of scholarship in their field? And then, of course, can they talk about it in their interviews and can they also showcase some academic work in their portfolio? Um, so these are the areas that Reco's courses actually help students do really well in, um, as well. Um, so, the basic structure of our courses is that it's 1-on-1 online. It starts off with the discovery call with me, 1-on-1, where we basically come up with a curriculum of readings that the student is going to do. And then, they're paired with a mentor, and then, basically, every session, um, they do a different reading, um, and, um, they also do writing workshops. And, um, in in some of our courses, students also can opt for a kind of capstone project where they write one paper about everything they've read. Um, but our the projects that students, you know, create through our courses differ across our courses. We don't offer anything regarding publication. So, there's no external publication involved, but students are leaving with polished, finished items that are really unique because they actually don't have to subscribe to any particular form of any particular publication. So, it's actually a very differentiating, unique factor, and they can publish it online on on Substack or Medium or any of these places and easily share them with their universities. Um, so, this is just a quick example of a student, her name is Freya, she was really interested in behavioral eco and management, applying mostly to UK universities. And she, um, ended up reading four book chapters, two research papers, and two HBS case studies. And we curate all of this in terms of content, length, level, you know, to the student's, um, abilities, interests, etc. Um, and she wrote a lot. She wrote over 7,500 words, seven academic essays, which is a really nice sort of series to have on Substack saying, "Here's a series of seven essays on behavioral economics and management." Um, right, and that's, and I'm going to apply for this course. And then, of course, she can speak about all of this in her interview. And you actually get some practice for that as well because we always have Reco student showcases where students actually present their work, which is great fun and students practice, you know, about talking about their work and their arguments, um, which helps them in their interview as well. Um, so, our mentors are kind of all across the country especially, um, most of them are PhD students at places like Ashoka. So, that's just broadly speaking what, uh, the profile is like. Um, here are a couple of our testimonials, and I just, you know, re-put the hamster icon with an X on it because I think that's kind of the big feedback that we get from people. What the reason that they like our courses and they do well in our courses is because they don't feel pressure. Um, they they feel as though they are learning, they feel as though they're, you know, doing something that's productive for their applications, and they feel like they're going to be prepared for whatever is to come next. Um, right, so just broad strokes on the details. It's 1-on-1 courses, Zoom. Um, the length is customizable. We typically do, um, nine sessions at the minimum, and then 12 sessions if you want a sort of larger project. Um, the price is TBD, um, but in the past, it's been approximately 8k per session, and that includes everything, right? I mean, that includes the interface and, um, all all the different Google Docs that go around, all the readings, the full curation of the curriculum, um, feed- feedback on, you know, before every session, everything is fully included in that. Um, we're not accepting students anymore this year, but we're going to reopen it in the summer of next year. So, um, if you have questions about the courses and things like that, please just reach out to me and I'm happy to have a conversation. And I really wanted today to be more about kind of the larger issues that we're dealing with as a community and the responsibilities that we have to our students. Um, and just finally, you know, who is Reco for? Um, any academic level. Okay. So, the student can really not be doing well in school, the student can be doing very, very well in school, and we've had a lot of success with both kinds of students and everybody in the middle. Um, in terms of subjects, yes, it's a reading writing program, right? So, um, humanities and social sciences including economics and psychology are the bulk of the students who come to us. And in some cases, we take on STEM students as well, especially if they want to look at something from a social science angle. So, if someone's interested in AI and they want to write read about, you know, how is AI going to affect jobs, then that's something that we can help with. Um, so I'll just leave it at that for now. But what's really important is that, um, we're we're we we only work with serious students, um, and we, I'm sure like all of us, Reco also gets a lot of inquiries, and we turn away way more students than we take on because, um, we're very clear about, you know, what we offer um and the level of work that's required to actually get anything from our courses. Because if you come to our session without having done the reading, you're not going to gain anything, um, right? So, um, and we don't do any work for students. So, um, so you have to be serious. And we're also very clear about our timings and everything. We're very organized in our scheduling. Um, so we have, of course, a lot of flexibility for students to change sessions. Even we need to do that sometimes, we're all human. But, um, if if you're going to come for a session unprepared, if you're going to ask for a change last minute, we won't do it. So, um, it's it's meant for people who are genuinely serious about learning and who are also, you know, really serious about doing their work and showing up on time and things like that. Um, that's all. So, um, thank you so much for everyone and I'm really looking forward to the discussion.
